Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability is the new space where businesses compete with one another. They are no longer merely voluntary activities that companies perform on the side, but are effective business tools that organisations use to gain favour from the market and their shareholders. CSR has become an integral part of every company’s business strategy that they use to outrank their competitors. This has brought about a new life to the developmental activities in India.
As we reach the end of yet another eventful year and get ready to welcome 2025, let us recognise the companies that outdid themselves with their CSR and sustainability initiatives.
1. Reliance Industries Limited
Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has been consistently holding its title of the ‘largest CSR spender’ in India since the past five consecutive years. In FY 2023-24, the company spent a total of Rs. 1592 Cr. on its CSR initiatives. Through its initiatives, it was able to positively impact the lives of over 76 million people. The company has time and again proven its commitment to promoting sustainable development in India.
RIL carries out its CSR initiaitves through Reliance Foundation, which is led by Smt. Nita Ambani, its Founder and Chairperson. Reliance Foundation focuses its energies on driving transformative social impact across the country through various initiatives in the field of education, healthcare, rural development, biodiversity conservation, animal welfare, disaster response, etc.
RIL, through its rural development initiatives has benefitted over 20.27 million people. The company’s water conservation efforts has led to an increase in the water harvesting capacity by about 28.5 million cubic meters. In addition to this, the organisation has benefitted more than 39,000 hectares of farmland through its initiatives on improvement of agricultural practices. The company’s healthcare initiatives has positively impacted the lives of more than 9.29 million people.
Apart from this, the company has empowered more than 500,000 women since 2020 through its digital literacy programs, with 84,000 women benefitting in the last financial year alone.
2. Apollo Tyres Limited
Apollo Tyres Limited has bagged the second spot in the ranking for its CSR and sustainability initiatives in 2024. The company spent Rs. 15.7 Cr. on its CSR initiatives in the last financial year, impacting the lives of over 1.23 million people in India.
The CSR initiaitves of Apollo Tyres are focused on four key areas: Healthcare for Trucking Community, Solid Waste Management and Sanitation, Livelihood for Rural Women and Biodiversity Conservation.
Apollo Tyres supports the Government of India’s commitment to eliminate TB in India by 2025. For this campaign, the company has set up a dedicated healthcare program for the trucking community, in partnership with USAID, the Union and Central TB Division, and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Apollo Tyers has been working to empowering the rural women through its CSR initiative Project Navya. Under this project, the company ensures that the women SHGs in rural areas have access to microfinancing, and other necessary support in form of skill training, which can help them start their entrepreneural journeys.
Apollo Tyres considers biodiversity conservation of utmost importance. The organisation has made a commitment to positively impact half a million beneficiaries by FY2026 through its biodiversity conservation efforts. In the last financial year, the company has pleged to conserve 1.05 million trees under It.org as part of the World Economic Forum.
3. Adani Group
Adani group firmly believes that empowered society creates powerful nations. The group carries out its CSR initiatives primarily through Adani Foundation. In FY2023-24, all of the companies under Adani Group cumulatively spent more than Rs. 650 crores on CSR.
Adani Foundation, led by Smt. Priti Adani, operates in 19 states and 6769 villages in India. The organisation focuses its initiatives in the areas of education, health and nutrition, sustainable livelihoods, community development and climate action. Through its programs, it has been able to positively impact the lives of over 9.1 million people.
Adani Group has committed to align itself with India’s goal to achieve net zero emissions by 2070. To aid this energy transition, the Group has committed to invest $100 billion over the next decade in various green energy projects. This will also include investment for development of 10 gigawatts (GW) of hydroelectric projects internationally.
Adani Group took the third place in The CSR Journal’s ‘Top Companies for CSR and Sustainability for 2024’ ranking.
4. Tata Consumer Products Limited
Tata Group is known for its ethical conduct and philanthropy. It is therefore no surprise to find Tata Consumer Product Limited (TCPL) – a Tata Group company – among the top five companies for CSR and sustainability for 2024.
TCPL spent Rs. 20.12 Cr. on CSR in FY2023-24, benefitting the lives of over 1.39 million individuals. The company focuses its CSR initiatives in the key areas of healthcare and sanitation, education and skill development, rural development, women empowerment, and environment sustainability.
Tata Consumer Products Limited has reported that the company has achieved carbon neutrality on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions across all geographies. It has also succeeded in achieving zero waste to landfill across all of its beverage factories globally. The company has claimed that 70 per cent of its manufacturing facilities have secured ISO 45001 certification.
Tata Consumer Products Limited has deservingly earned the fourth spot in The CSR Journal’s ranking of top companies for CSR and sustainability in 2024.
5. Asian Paints Limited
Asian Paints Limited is a market leader in India’s decorative paint segment. The company is known for its creative and engaging ads.
Asian Paints spent Rs 90.8 crore on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives in FY 2023-24. In the said financial year, the company spent Rs 49.75 cr on Enhancing vocational skills, Rs 12.72 cr on Health and hygiene, Rs 23.26 cr on Water stewardship and Rs 0.02 cr on Disaster management initiatives.
Asian paints has committed to reduce its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 75 per cent by 2025, and by 80 per cent by 2030. The company has also pledged to achieve 75 per cent renewable energy usage by 2025 and 100 per cent by 2030.
Asian Paints has achieved the fifth spot in The CSR Journal’s ‘Top Companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024’ ranking.
6. Procter and Gamble
Procter and Gamble has been carrying out its CSR initiatives in India long before it became mandatory in the country. The company’s flagship CSR initiative P&G Shiksha has been committed to addressing critical barriers to quality education. Launched in 2005, the program has impacted the lives of over 5 million childern.
In addition to this, various brands of P&G carry out effective CSR initiatives, benefitting millions of people. Whisper #keepgirlsinschool campaign has been raising awareness about lack of period education in India. The campaign has also distributed free sanitary pads to over 100 million girls and mothers.
Furthermore, P&G has committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2040. Procter and Gamble scored the sixth spot on The CSR Journal’s ranking of top companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024.
7. Hindustan Unilever Limited
Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) is parent to some of the most popular brands in India. The company has a very extensive reach across the country, which it uses for effective implementation of its CSR campaigns. The company’s flagship program, ‘Prabhat,’ has positively impacted almost 10 million lives across 21 states and 2 Union Territories over the past decade. Prabhat concentrates on enhancing livelihoods, improving health and well-being, and promoting water conservation.
HUL spent a total of Rs. 234 Cr. on its CSR activities in FY 2023-24. Of this amount, more than Rs. 30 Cr. was spent for various developmental projects in the aspirational districts of India.
HUL has committed to achieve net zero emissions across its entire value chain by 2039. This includes halving the greenhouse gas impact of its products across their lifecycle by 2030 and attaining zero emissions in its operations by 2030. To work towards reducing its carbon footprint, HUL has partnered with Brookfield to establish a 45 MW solar energy park in Rajasthan.
HUL has earned itself the seventh spot on The CSR Journal’s ranking of top companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024.
8. JSW Steel Limited
JSW Steel Limited is a leading steel manufacturer of India. JSW Steel is known for its commitment to sustainability. In fact, has been included in the S&P Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Emerging Markets (2021).
JSW Steel Limited has spent a total of Rs. 235 Cr. on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives in the financial year 2023-24, benefitting more than 1.2 million people. The company conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of health and nutrition, education and skill development, water, environment and sanitation, sports promotion, and art and culture preservation.
JSW Steel Limited has committed to reducing its specific carbon dioxide emissions to around 1.95 tCO2/tcs by 2030, which is below India’s stated nationally determined contribution of 2.4 tCO2/tcs. Furthermore, the company has committed to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.
In The CSR Journal’s ‘Top Companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024’ ranking, JSW Steel Limited has secured the eighth spot.
9. Marico Limited
Marico Limited is a leading consumer goods company in India. It is known for its diverse range of products in health, wellness and beauty categories. Its falgship brand Parachute is a market leader in coconut oil. Marico Limited touches the lives of one out of ever three Indians through its products.
The company considers responsible and inclusive growth as part of its ethos. The company strongly believes in investing in people and building a positive culture.
Marico Limited conducts its CSR initiatives through Marico Innovation Foundation, and Parachute Kalpavriksha Foundation. In FY2024, Marico spent a total of Rs. 23.79 Cr. towards its CSR initiatives. The company’s CSR initiatives are focused in the areas of sustainable agriculture and livelihood improvement, education, and social innovation. It has positively impacted the lives of over 1.6 million people.
Marico Limited has committed that to achieve net-zero emissions by 2030.  The company has already achieved 79 per cent of reduction in direct GHG emissions from its basy year FY2013.
Marico has claimed that 100 per cent of its manufacturing facilities are coal free. Moreover, 90 per cent of its operational thermal energy are met by renewable energy sources. In The CSR Journal’s ‘Top Companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024’ ranking, Marico Limited has grabbed the ninth position.
10. Coca Cola India Private Limited
Coca Cola India is a leading beverage company and a subsidiary of the US-based The Coca Cola Company. The company is known for its iconic soda beverage – Coca Cola. Apart from this, it also offers a range of highly popular beverages including Maaza, Thums Up, Sprite, Minute Maid, and Kinley water.
Coca Cola has been subjected to a plethora of allegations for water depletion and generation of plastic waste through PET bottles. Recognising its responsibility in these issues, the company has directed its CSR programs to focus on water stewardship, sustainable agriculture, packaging and waste management.
Coca Cola is prioritising goals and actions that seek to improve water security in high-risk locations, reduce packaging waste and decrease emissions, and is extending the timeframe to 2035. The company aims to return more than 100% of the water used in finished products globally, on an aggregate level, to nature and communities. Since 2015, the company has met or exceeded this goal.
The company is also focusing its efforts to use more recycled material in primary packaging and supporting collection rates, both of which require enabling policies and the growth of collection infrastructure. It intends to continue to invest in refillable packaging where infrastructure already exists.
Coca Cola India’s flagship CSR initiative Project Jaldhara recently won The CSR Journal Excellence Award in the Environment Category. The company bagged tenth position in the ‘Top Companies for CSR and Sustainability in 2024’ ranking by The CSR Journal.
11. Infosys Limited
Infosys is a global consulting and IT services company. It is a leader in next generation digital services and consulting across the world. The purpose of the company is, “To amplify human potential and create next opportunity for people, business and communities.”
Infosys has been an early proponent of responsible business practices. The company has therefore incorporated its ESG goals into the entirety of its operations. In the financial year 2023-24, the company spent a total of Rs. 577 Cr. on CSR across the world of which Rs. 455.67 Cr. was spent on various CSR projects in India. The company focuses its CSR initiatives in the areas of education, healthcare, women empowerment, sustainability, rural development, art and culture, and disaster relief.
Infosys has committed to net zero emissions by 2040. It has been carbon neutral for five years now. In addition, more than 67 per cent of the company’s electricity consumption for its operations in India come from renewable sources.
12. HCL Technologies Limited
HCL Technologies is a next-generation global technology company that helps enterprises reimagine their businesses for the digital age. The company builds sustainability principles and actions into its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations.
In order to make the most difference in a way that it can do the best for the society, the company focuses its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives on health, education, technology, jobs and people who are denied the benefits and access afforded by science, technology and innovation.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent INR 291.21 crores under its CSR spending, which is more than the prescribed 260 crores as per the Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. With this year’s investment, the company’s cumulative CSR spending reached INR 1400 crores  in India, which helped to transform the lives of over 6.5 million people.
HCL Technologies has committed to Net Zero Carbon Emissions by 2040. It has also pledged to achieve 50 per cent reduction in absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 2030, compared to 2020 baseline. As of FY24, 19 per cent of the energy consumption by the company came from renewable sources.
13. JSW Steel Coated Products Limited
JSW Steel Coated Products Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Jsw Steel Limited. The company is India’s manufacturer and exporter of coated steel products.
JSW Steel Coated Products spent Rs. 22.72 Cr. on its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. The company conducts its CSR initiatives through JSW Foundation, in the areas of health and nutrition, education and skill development, water, environment and sanitation, sports promotion, and art and culture preservation. Its CSR approach emphasises local needs, community ownership, and long-term sustainability.
JSW Steel Coated Products has committed to Carbon Neutrality by 2030.
14. Nestle
Nestle is one of the largest FMCG’s in the world. The company has presence in over 189 countries and has launched several popular food brands across the world.
Nestle has a robust framework for its CSR initiatives in India. In FY24, the company spent Rs. 68.5 Cr. for its CSR programs in the country. The company conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of nutrition awareness, water, sanitation, education, enhancing livelihood, rural development projects, ensuring environment sustainability and disaster management. Its flagship program Nestle Healthy Kids Programme has benefitted over 600,000 adolescents and 56,000 parents across 26 states and union territories. Another flagship program if Nestle, Project Hilldaari has diverted 28,000 metric tons of waste from landfills. It has also achieved an 80 per cent source segregation rate at over 20,000 waste collection points.
Nestle has committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. By the end of 2023, the company was sourcing more than 90 per cent of its energy from renewable sources.
15. Wipro
Wipro is a leading IT, consulting and business process services company in India focused on building innovative solutions that address the’ most complex digital transformation needs of clients.
Wipro has been actively contributing to community development in India long before CSR became a mandate. In FY24, the company spent Rs. 208 Cr. on CSR. The company conducts its CSR initiatives through the Wipro Foundation which focuses on various programs in the areas of Education, Primary Healthcare, Ecology, Disaster Response, and Cities & Public Spaces.
In FY24, the company’s CSR programs reached 17 countries, supporting about 225 projects in the areas of Education, Primary Healthcare, Digital Skilling and Urban and Community Ecology. These initiatives had a positive impact on the lives of about 4.5 million people, primarily those from underserved communities.
Wipro has committed to achieve Net Zero emissions by 2030. It is on track to meeting this goal with a footprint of 76% renewable energy and a 80% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions as of March 31, 2024.
16. Grasim Industries
Grasim Industries Limited, a flagship Company of Aditya Birla Group (ABG), is one of the leading diversified companies in India. Grasim is a prominent producer of Cellulosic Staple Fibre (CSF), globally and in India.
Grasim Industries spent Rs. 58.39 Cr. on Corporate Social Responsibility Projects/initiatives during FY24, focusing on the areas of Education, Health Care, Sustainable Livelihoods, Infrastructure Development, Social Empowerment, Rural Development and COVID related CSR. Through this, the company positively impacted the lives of over 1.2 million people.
Grasim Industries has committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. In FY 2023-24, the company has strengthened efforts to combat climate change by developing a comprehensive net zero roadmap with defined strategies to reduce its carbon footprint.
17. Tata Consultancy Services
Tata Consultancy Services, globally referred to as TCS is India’s largest software and IT services company. A part of India’s largest multinational business Tata group, TCS has over 420,000 of the world’s best trained consultants in 50 countries across major continents.
Talking about their corporate social responsibility, TCS gives special attention to STEM (Science, Technology Engineering, and Mathematics) and rural education. In keeping with the philosophy of Tata Group, the company channelizes its best resources to improve literacy level and train the innovators and tech geniuses of tomorrow. Other areas of focus for social change include marine conservation, health and sanitation.
In the FY 2023-24, Tata Consultancy Services had spent Rs 827 Cr. on corporate social responsibility, positively impacting the lives of over over 7 million people. The employee volunteering program of the company known as HOPE (Hours of Purpose by Employees) resulted in over 6.7 million hours dedicated to purpose projects across dimensions of biodiversity, mental health, climate action, circularity, literacy, education, skilling, mentoring, conservation and more covering the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
TCS has committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2045. It has already achieved a reduction of 80 per cent in Scope 1 and 2 emissions in FY 2024 over a baseline of 2016. 74 per cent of the total energy consumed by the company came from renewable sources in FY24.
18. Vedanta
Vedanta Limited is one of the world’s leading natural resources companies with interests in zinc-lead-silver, oil & gas, aluminium, power, iron ore, steel and copper, operating across India, South Africa and Namibia. The company, known across the country for its flagship initiative ‘Nand Ghar’, has spent more than Rs. 450 Crore in FY24 for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), impacting the lives of over 17.4 million people across the country.
The company conducts its CSR initiative through Vedanta Foundation and Anil Agarwal Foundation in areas such as education, vocational training, skill development, rural upliftment, etc.
Vedanta has committed to achieving net zero carbon by 2050, and net water positivity by 2030.To achieve this, the company has pledged to spend $5 billion over the next decade.
19. HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank is India’s largest private sector bank. The bank has extensive reach across the country with over 8,800 branches.
HDFC Bank is one of the largest CSR spenders in India. In FY 2023-24, the bank spent Rs. 945.31 crore on its CSR initiatives. Under the umbrella of its CSR brand, Parivartan, HDFC Bank’s initiatives have thus far impacted 10.19 crore lives, reaching over 9,000 villages and more than 10 lakh households, including coverage in 85 out of 112 districts identified in the Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP) of the Government of India. Focused on creating sustainable livelihoods for marginalised communities, especially women, Parivartan operates across 28 states and 8 Union Territories.
Parivartan is the Bank’s umbrella brand for all social efforts. It aims to drive positive change in people’s lives by empowering them, to become self-sufficient and integrated with the society through direct or indirect interventions. Parivartan is also at the forefront of natural disaster response, successfully restoring infrastructure and rehabilitating communities. Parivartan works under six thematic areas: rural development, education, skill enhancement, healthcare, financial literacy, and the environment.
HDFC Bank has committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2032 as part of its Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy.
20. State Bank of India
State Bank of India is the largest commercial bank in the country, and is the 48th largest bank in the world. With the most extensive reach, the bank has over 22,500 branches in the country and 241 branches in 29 country outside India.
Social Responsibility is deeply ingrained in the culture of the State Bank of India. Consequently, the Bank has been actively involved in CSR activity since 1973. The primary purpose of the Bank’s CSR philosophy is to make a meaningful and measurable impact on the lives of economically, physically and socially challenged communities of the country.
In FY2024, SBI spent Rs. 502.32 Cr. on CSR initiatives. The main areas of focus for these initiatives were: Healthcare, Education, Livelihood, Rural & Slum Area Development, Skill Development, Environment, Protection of National Heritage, Empowerment of Women and Senior Citizens, Animal Welfare, Sports, among others. The initiatives were able to have a positive impact on the lives of over 5.5 million people. The bank conducts majority of its CSR initiatives through SBI Foundation.
The Swasth Mahila, Swasth Goa initiative by SBI Foundation was awarded with The CSR Journal Excellence Awarded 2024 for healthcare category. Its SBIF Ace Para Athlete Grant Program was awarded as the second runner up at the event for sports category.
21. Dabur India Limited
Dabur India Ltd is one of India’s leading FMCG Companies operating for over 133 years. Dabur is among India’s most popular Ayurvedic and natural health care Companies. Dabur today operates in key consumer product categories like hair care, oral care, health care, skin care, home care and foods.
Dabur India’s FMCG portfolio includes brands like Dabur Chyawanprash, Dabur Honey, Dabur Honitus, Dabur Lal Tail and Dabur Pudin Hara in the Healthcare category; Dabur Amla, Vatika and Dabur Red Paste in the Personal care space; and Réal in the Food & Beverages category.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 36.90 crores on CSR initiatives, which is slightly more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs. 34.82 crores).
Talking about CSR, Dabur India believes in ensuring socio-economic development of the community through need-based initiatives for the poor and deprived sections of the society in order to help them to become self-reliant and building their future. The company is also working towards ensuring environmental sustainability through ecological conservation and regeneration, protection & re-growth of endangered plant species, and promoting biodiversity.
Dabur’s SNEH (Self-Defense, Nutrition, Empowerment, and Health) programme is working to ensure health and well-being of less privileged sections of the society with a focus is on building a better and safer future for girl children. The project is being implemented in 8 districts across Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Assam. The project currently engages directly with a total of 92,793 individuals across these districts.
One of Dabur’s flagship nutrition support programs, Project Poshan is aimed at building Awareness and changing attitudes and ensure that communities consume healthy, nutritious meals, which runs in the urban slums of Noida, Uttar Pradesh.
Dabur has been working with multiple partner NGOs to support marginalised populations by increasing access to healthcare services, improving health outcomes, promoting health equity, and increasing community participation. These projects have been crafted with a clear focus on women and children. In 2023-24 the company constructed 42 household toilets in 3 villages in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh.
Dabur has joined hands with Indian Head Injury Foundation (IHIF) to implement ‘Project Saksham’. Under the CSR project, the company is supporting a charitable physiotherapy and neuro-rehabilitation centre in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, providing support to victims of traumatic brain and spine injuries.
Project Herbal Kingdom is a community-level intervention that involves farmers, tribal and forest-based communities across India in conserving natural resources in wide-ranging ecosystems and promoting sustainable cultivation of rare medicinal herbs. In 2023-24, Dabur worked with 15 partner NGOs, engaging farmers, forest collectors and tribal communities in 34 districts across 12 states. A total of 10,877 farmers have been engaged in sustainable cultivation of herbs across the country and 10,145 acres of land has been brought under cultivation of medicinal and aromatic plants.
Dabur India Ltd was honoured at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 for their contribution towards Agriculture and Rural Development through CSR.
22. Coal India Limited
Coal India Limited is an Indian central public sector undertaking under the ownership of the Ministry of Coal, Government of India. Coal India is one of the largest CSR spending entities in the country. The Company’s CSR programs are focused in the areas of healthcare, education and rural development.
The state-owned mining giant has reported a significant investment of Rs 5,570 crore in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives over the past decade, according to Chairman P M Prasad. This substantial expenditure, revealed at the 3rd CIL CSR Conclave 2024, underscores the company’s commitment to social development in its operational areas.
The CSR efforts have primarily focused on five key sectors including education, healthcare, skill development, sports, and women empowerment. These areas accounted for 71 per cent of the total CSR expenditure, with healthcare alone comprising nearly 50 per cent of the spending at Rs 2,770 crore. The organisation’s statutory obligation for CSR spending in this period was of Rs. 4,265. However, CIL exceeded it by 31 per cent, amount to Rs. 1,314 crores.
The company has strategically allocated 95% of its CSR funds to eight operational states, with a particular emphasis on Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra. This targeted approach ensures that communities in coal-bearing regions, which are often economically disadvantaged, receive substantial benefits from CIL’s CSR activities.
In FY 2023-24, the Company, including its subsidiaries, spent Rs. 654.49 crores under its corporate social responsibility, which is higher than the statutory requirement of Rs. 547.59 crores.
World’s single largest coal producer Coal India Limited runs its CSR initiative ‘Thalassemia Bal Sewa Yojana’ for supporting the treatment of children affected by Thalassemia and Aplastic Anaemia. Coal India Limited is the first PSU to take up CSR project in 2017, for curative treatment of Thalassemia. Financial assistance upto Rs.10 lakhs is provided to eligible patients for Bone Marrow Transplant in ten prominent hospitals spread across the country. From 2021, Aplastic Anaemia patients are also covered under the scheme.
To be eligible for the support, patients need to have an annual family income of less than Rs. 8 lakhs along with fulfilling the medical and age-related criteria. The Rs. 70 cr. worth project is currently into its 3rd phase. In 2024, the 500th BMT under the project was completed.
23. Godrej Consumer Products Limited
Godrej Consumer Products Limited (GCPL) is a consumer goods company under the Godrej Group. Established in 1897, Godrej is one of India’s oldest brands having presence in consumer goods, real estate, appliances, agriculture and many other businesses.
In the FY 2023-24, the GCPL spent Rs 34.64 crores on CSR initiatives, which is more or less exactly the same as what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act.
GCPL is committed to the Godrej Group’s ‘Good & Green’ vision of creating a more inclusive and greener India. The GCPL CSR policy focuses on addressing the critical social, environmental, and economic needs of the marginalised and less privileged sections of society.
The focus areas of GCPL’s CSR include Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH), Education, Healthcare, Disaster Support, Employability & Livelihoods, Elimination of vector-borne endemic diseases, Waste Management, Water Conservation and Biodiversity.
Project EMBED (Elimination of Vector-Borne Endemic Diseases) started in 2015 in Madhya Pradesh in partnership with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare’s National Centre for Vector Borne Diseases Control focusing on malaria elimination. Over the past 9 years, the CSR programme was extended to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh and in FY 24 to Maharashtra.
STEM labs were established in 40 schools spanning Pondicherry, Karaikal and Chennai as part of GCPL’s Education CSR initiatives. Two fully equipped ambulances were provided to two Public Health Centres (PHCs) in rural Kamrup district, Assam, under CSR for healthcare. In response to the devastating Chennai floods this year, GCPL extended support to 600 families.
The company runs skilling programmes for youth from low-income sections of society in collaboration with non-profit organisations and social enterprises. Under the Beauty-preneur project, the company provides support to women micro entrepreneurs operating in the beauty and wellness sector across different regions of the country.
Since the fiscal year 2020-21, GCPL partnered with the Puducherry Municipal Corporation to implement a community waste management project reaching out to over 200,000 people. In FY 24, over 1,000 MT of waste was diverted from landfills through clean-up drives and door to door collection. A sanitation park has been set up which processes 4TPD of waste.
24. JK Cement
JK Cement Ltd. is one of India’s leading manufacturers of Grey Cement and one of the leading White Cement manufacturers in the World. Over four decades, the Company has partnered India’s multi-sectoral infrastructure needs on the strength of its product excellence, customer orientation and technology leadership. JK Cement’s operations commenced with commercial production at its flagship grey cement unit at Nimbahera, Rajasthan in May 1975.
The Company has an installed Grey Cement capacity of 24 MnTPA, making it one of the top cement manufacturers in the Country. JK White Cement is sold across 43 countries around the globe and the Company has a strong international presence with two subsidies, JK Cement Works Fujairah FZC and JK White Cement (Africa) Ltd.
The company spent Rs 20.87 crores as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure for the FY 2023-24 benefitting over 5 lakh beneficiaries, as claimed in its Annual Report. Major focus areas include Healthcare, Education, community development and environment.
JK Cement regularly organises medical camps, eye checkups and blood donation camps for the local communities in remote rural areas, where medicines are distributed for free. Addressing the acute lack of modern medical facilities in remote areas of states like Karnataka, Rajasthan and Haryana, the company has undertaken dynamic measures to bring healthcare within the reach of the general public. The company has been ensuring a consistent supply of potable water to roughly 3,000 residents of Jharli village, Haryana which has historically faced challenges in accessing safe and regular drinking water due to high total dissolved solids (TDS).
JK Cement’s educational institutions comprise K-12 schools, universities, and technical institutes at various locations across India.
As part of its Community development CSR initiative, the company is working on several projects aimed at improving livelihoods. The Adarsh Farm Project aims to attain sustainable income via Climate-Smart Agriculture initiatives which has been launched in three villages of Rajasthan in collaboration with Arpan Seva Sansthan. A dairy facility has been set up at Karunda village, Nimbahera, Rajasthan.
As part of its Environment sustainability initiatives, JK Cement partners with the local administration around its plants to undertake afforestation and conduct plantation drives. It also undertakes regular technology updation for emission reduction, effluent management, and energy efficiency.
25. Aditya Birla Finance Limited (ABFL)
Aditya Birla Finance Limited (ABFL), a subsidiary of Aditya Birla Capital Limited, is among the leading well-diversified non-banking financial services company in India. ABFL offers end-to-end lending, financing, and wealth management solutions to a diversified range of customers across the country. ABFL is registered with RBI as an Upper Layer non-deposit accepting non-banking finance company (NBFC) and is amongst the top five largest private diversified NBFCs in India.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 29.05 crores towards CSR projects with the total CSR obligation being Rs 30.02 crores. The unspent amount of 1.00 crore pertaining to ongoing projects were transferred to a separate Unspent CSR account on 31st March 2024 opened for that purpose.
The Aditya Birla Education Trust (ABET) marks the foray of the organisation into the field of education. ABET is registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 at Mumbai. Neerja Birla is the Founder and Chairperson of the Trust. The Trust consists of six units: Aditya Birla World Academy, The Aditya Birla Integrated School, The Aditya Birla Education Academy, Mpower, Ujaas and Nalanda.
Mpower, an initiative of Aditya Birla Education Trust promotes mental health and well-being regardless of age, gender, and socio-economic boundaries. Services and programs include counselling, therapy, and support groups for people with mental health concerns, as well as outreach programs to reduce stigma and promote mental health care in India.
Founded by Advaitesha Birla, Ujaas has been driving awareness in the menstrual health space. Ujaas launched its Menstrual Health Express initiative in Mumbai in February 2024. The Ujaas Van is travelling across 25 states and 107 cities, conducting informative menstrual health workshops in partnership with local NGOs. The aim was to dismantle menstrual taboos and promote hygiene. Moreover, Ujaas has launched a Self-Help Groups (SHGs) program and a manufacturing unit for sustainable cloth pads. This initiative not only provides access to cloth pads in rural markets but also creates livelihood opportunities for 25 SHG women in the first phase.
26. ICICI Lombard General Insurance
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. is one of the leading private-sector general insurance companies in India.
According to the company’s annual report, in FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs. 37.04 crores as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure.
The Company’s CSR activities primarily focus on areas like Health care, Road Safety, Ensuring Environment Sustainability, Education, Skill development and sustainable livelihoods and also support employees engagement in CSR and Sustainability activities.
ICICI Lombard’s flagship preventive healthcare programme, “Caring Hands” is a unique employee volunteering initiative launched in 2011. Through the programme, ICICI Lombard organises free eye screening camps for children in government and municipal schools. Eye care counselling and spectacle distribution are also offered to children who are identified with visual impairment during the camps. Since 2011, the initiative has benefited over 400,000 children and distributed more than 47,000 spectacles, as per the ICICI Lombard’s Annual Report FY 24. The company was accorded with The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2021 for this program under the health and sanitation category.
ICICI Lombard runs an environmental sustainability programme that involved the installation of solar panels in schools. The programme launched in FY 22 is aligned to India’s net-zero ambition and is an effort to offer access to clean energy for all. The initiative will help schools to reduce their environmental footprint while ensuring uninterrupted power for students.
“Ride to Safety” is the company’s flagship initiative aimed at making roads safer for children and their parents, which include raising wareness, prevention and rehabilitation of accident victims. During FY 2024, over 175,000 parents and children were made aware of Road Safety habits, besides emphasising the need for children to wear a helmet as pillion riders on two-wheelers.
In FY 2024, the installation of solar panels was carried out by ICICI Foundation. During FY 2024, 221 solar panels were installed across Gomti (Tripura), Nawada (Bihar), Pune and Beed (Maharashtra). Cumulatively, ICICI Lombard has installed 326 solar panels.
ICICI Foundation implemented the Niranjali programme on behalf of ICICI Lombard. Under this programme, over 1,010 water purifiers were installed across Nawada, Aurangabad, Beed, Pune, Dharashiv, Latur, Jalna, Jalgaon, Nashik, Nandurbar, Wardha, Yavatmal and Amravati.
27. ITC Limited
Established in 1910, ITC Limited is a diversified conglomerate with businesses spanning Fast Moving Consumer Goods comprising Foods, Personal Care, Cigarettes and Cigars, Education & Stationery Products, Incense Sticks and Safety Matches; Hotels, Paperboards and Packaging, Agri Business and Information Technology.
ITC Limited, one of India’s leading multi-business conglomerates headquartered in Kolkata, features on our list of top companies performing CSR and sustainable practices in India in 2024. The company spent Rs 404.05 crores on CSR initiatives in the FY 2023-24, which is slightly higher than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 403.47 crores). The company’s CSR projects is spread across 26 States/Union Territories covering over 300 districts.
The two most important stakeholders for ITC’s CSR projects are rural communities, primarily in the company’s agri-business areas and communities residing in close proximity to the company’s production units.
To address the magnitude of water stress, ITC runs a water stewardship programme. Work has been done in four river basins till date in Maharashtra (Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), Tamil Nadu (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana (Murreru basin) and work initiated in the fifth basin in Karnataka (South Pennar basin). The coverage of water stewardship programme currently extends to 55 districts of 17 states. During the year, the area under watershed increased by over 1.68 lakh acres, taking the cumulative coverage area to over 16.38 lakh acres.
The Climate Smart Agriculture programme attempts to de-risk farmers from erratic weather events through the promotion and adaptation of climate-smart agriculture premised on dissemination of relevant package of practices, adoption of appropriate mechanisation and provision of institutional services. Currently, 27.94 lakh acres spread over 85 districts across 19 states and 10.5 lakh farmers including 1.95 lakh women farmers.
ITC’s ‘Adarsh Gram Programme’ presently covers 361 model villages in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Under this initiative, the company supports villages to become economically, ecologically and socially sustainable.
ITC is also working with dairy farmers in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal to improve productivity of animals through several extension services and to facilitate higher milk production. During the year, about 66,495 cattle of over 43,212 dairy farmers across 483 villages in nine districts of Bihar, three districts of West Bengal and one district in Jharkhand were supported.
The company’s pioneering afforestation initiative through the Social Forestry programme greened over 33,900 acres during the year. It is currently spread across 16 districts in 6 states covering over 4.9 lakh acres in 7,400 villages, impacting over 1.87 lakh poor households.
The financial literacy and inclusion project, in partnership with Madhya Pradesh State Rural Livelihood Mission (MPSRLM) and CRISIL Foundation continued in its second phase of partnership covering all 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh.
The Primary Education programme aims to provide children from weaker sections of society access to education with focus on learning outcomes and retention. Operational in 34 districts of 15 states, the programme covered over 4.1 lakh children during the year, taking the cumulative coverage to over 15.31 lakh children.
The Skilling & Vocational Training programme provides training in market linked skills to youth from marginalised sections including differently abled, to enable them to engage in decent livelihoods. 12,500 youth across 33 districts in 16 states were trained under different courses during the year, of which 49% were female.
Around 14.61 lakh beneficiaries spread across 22 districts in eight states were covered under the company’s Mother and Child Health and Nutrition initiative aimed at improving the health-nutrition status of women, adolescents and children.
28. Britannia Industries Limited
Britannia Industries Limited is a food and beverage company with a rich legacy of over a century. It was established in the year 1892 at a starting capital of a mere Rs. 295 in a small house in Kolkata. Today Britannia is a household name in India, and one of the country’s leading food products companies. Its key businesses are in bakery, dairy, and adjacent snacking categories and its operations span over 80 countries in the world.
Britannia CSR makes a difference at the community level through various interventions addressing undernutrition and malnutrition. Research and development in nutrition is a major component of Britannia’s corporate social responsibility. The company undertakes most of its CSR initiatives through Britannia Nutrition Foundation and Sir Ness Wadia Foundation.
Britannia Nutrition Foundation (BNF) was set up in 2010 with a vision to help address malnutrition. BNF works extensively with the district and block level authorities, Anganwadi and health workers and in collaboration with ICDS, health, education and Krishi Vigyan Kendra. Today, BNF is working in Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, covering more than 1100+ villages and slums.
Sir Ness Wadia Foundation (SNWF) has been striving to bridge the socio-economic gap existing in the society since its establishment, as a Non-Profit Organisation in 1969. Central to SNWF’s mission is its emphasis on investing in the health and nutritional well-being of women, children and adolescents, along with fostering self-sufficient communities through its ‘Village Development Programs’. At the core of these initiatives lie two primary objectives i.e., reduction of malnutrition and the facilitation of sustainable development in rural areas. The target beneficiaries include children under the age of 6 years, adolescent girls, lactating mothers, pregnant women and farmers.
IN FY 2023-24, Britannia Industries Limited met its obligatory requirement of CSR by spending Rs. 46.72 crores which is the exact 2 per cent of the company’s average net profit of last 3 financial years. During FY 2023-24, the focus areas for its CSR Programmes include education, health care including preventive health care, village development including water & sanitation and reduction of malnutrition.
29. TVS Motor Company
TVS Motor Company is a reputed two and three-wheeler manufacturer globally, championing progress through Sustainable Mobility with four state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities in Hosur, Mysuru and Nalagarh in India and Karawang in Indonesia. TVS Motor has footprints globally, including geographies like Middle East, Africa, SE Asia, Indian subcontinent, Latin & Central America.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 30 crores on CSR initiatives, which is slightly more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 26.39 cr).
Srinivasan Services Trust (SST) is the social arm of TVS Motor Company which has been carrying out rural development activities since 1996. SST is working in thousands of villages spread over in five States of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra. SST’s holistic approach focuses on critical areas of Economic Development, Health, Education, Infrastructure, Environment and Social and Cultural Development in the villages.
SST works with communities and governments to empower India’s rural poor through awareness, skills and training programs. Over the last twenty-five years, SST, with the help of TVS Motor Company, has been actively facilitating sustainable and self-reliant development across 2,500 villages in India, bringing a paradigm of holistic and sustained socio-economic change at the grassroots level across India. The focus is on rural development, economic development, women empowerment, health care, education, environment sustainability, social empowerment, infrastructure development and conservation of natural resources.
TVS Motor Company was honoured with The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2023 in the Special Commendation category for water conservation work in Tiruvannamalai.
Srinivasan Services Trust announced in March 2023 that it has over the last six years, invested over Rs 21 crores in water conservation efforts across villages of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. At least 350 desilting projects including desilting of tanks and irrigation channels have been undertaken by SST increasing the water storage availability by 160 crore litres (57 million cubic feet). Additionally, with active participation by the local communities and through their association with National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), SST has implemented programmes in Javadhu Hills in Tiruvannamalai & Tirupathur districts and Thally in Krishnagiri district in which 19 check dams and 120 farm ponds have been created. In partnership with other organizations, SST has also implemented watershed programs in Tirunelveli and Tiruvannamalai districts of Tamil Nadu.
30. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. (ONGC)
ONGC is the largest crude oil and natural gas Company in India, contributing around 71 per cent to Indian domestic production. Crude oil is used to produce petroleum products like Petrol, Diesel, Kerosene, Naphtha, and Cooking Gas LPG.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 634.58 crores on CSR initiatives, including highest-ever expenditure of Rs 81 crore in Company’s Aspirational Districts. This is way more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 604.19 crores).
ONGC aims to take up CSR Activities for promoting healthy environment and environmental sustainability with a view to mitigating the impacts of its operations on the environment and tries to focus its CSR efforts towards improving the lives of its surrounding communities by broadly addressing the focus areas of education, healthcare, nutrition and drinking water in its onshore areas of operation and development of coastal community and marine and coastal ecology in offshore areas of operation.
As per directives of NitiAyog, ONGC has identified 20 Aspiration districts and is committed to raising the social and economic condition of these districts by implementing strategic CSR projects. In recent years, the company has undertaken major CSR projects in areas like Health Care, Education, Skill Development, Swachh Bharat and Rural Development.
ONGC’s is committed to improving the quality of education and supporting skill development. Its Ankleshwar Asset launched a skill development initiative aimed at enhancing employment opportunities for youth in the Narmada district, under the Aspirational Districts Program (ADP). The initiative involved training beneficiaries in various sectors including tourism, hospitality, healthcare and tailoring. In Silchar, Assam, ONGC provided vocational training programme to 100 unemployed youth in the Hailakandi District, equipping them with the necessary skillsets to secure gainful employment in the telecommunication sector.
ONGC is committed to enhancing healthcare accessibility and quality for the underserved communities. ONGC Mumbai facilitated the installation of 7 patient monitoring systems, along with a centralized system in a multispecialty hospital.
ONGC invests in building infrastructure such as roads, community centres, sanitation facilities and drinking water projects in its operational areas. The Company undertook an initiative aimed at positively impacting the education and well-being of school children and local communities in the Junagadh District, Gujarat.
ONGC’s environmental and sustainability initiatives focus on promoting ecological balance and combating climate change. As a part of these initiatives, the Cambay Asset has implemented a 13 KW solar photovoltaic system at Madla Talav, a popular public park in Khambhat, making it a first park of its kind in the area.
31. Havells India
Havells India Limited is a leading FMEG company with a strong global presence, manufacturing a wide range of electrical products for residential, commercial, and industrial use. Key brands include Havells, Crabtree, REO, Standard, Havells Studio and Lloyd.
Havells is committed to social responsibility, with initiatives in education, sanitation, and community development. Recognized for its sustainability efforts, Havells has been ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and maintains an ‘A’ rating in the MSCI ESG Rating.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 30 crores on CSR initiatives. This is more or less same as what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 29.28 crores). During the year, the Company undertook CSR activities in the areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Skill Development, Sanitation, Environment and National Sports.
With the aim to facilitate learning and growth of underprivileged children up to Grade 3, Havells associated with Central Square Foundation (CSF) to implement FLN program in Aligarh (U.P.), in FY 2023-24. The program provides special education training & capacity building for government teachers, under the spectrum of Foundation Learning & Numeracy (FLN) program, as per Nipun Bharat guidelines.
In FY 2023-24, the company associated with the Chanakya University, Bangalore and contributed towards the construction of its Data centre and Core IT area. Support for exploring the IT Facility within the university was also extended to the students.
Havells ‘Project Baala’ empowers and educates women and girls about menstrual health and hygiene. With over 2,800+ menstrual hygiene workshops, the project has impacted over 6 lakh women and girls in 23 States & 4 UTs across 50 districts.
To support upskilling and create livelihood opportunities for the underprivileged youth, and to meet the UN Sustainable Development Goal (UNSDG), Maharath programme was launched by Havells in January 2024. The program is run in collaboration with Electronic Sector Skill Council of India (ESSCI) to explore the various facets of the industry and equip young electricians from marginalised communities with future-ready skills.
32. Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited
Colgate-Palmolive (India), now in its eighth decade, has one of the widest distribution networks in India. The company is a market leader in the country in Oral Care. The organization has adopted sustainability, diversity, equity, inclusion and social responsibility strategies.
Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited manufactures and markets toothpastes, toothbrushes, toothpowder, oil pulling products and mouthwashes, under the Colgate brand, and a specialized range of personal care products under the Palmolive brand.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 30.60 crores on CSR initiatives. The company’s flagship Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program, launched in 1976 to spread awareness among children about oral health, has touched the lives of 178 million children across the rural and urban landscape to date.
Colgate, along with its NGO partners, has been consistently contributing to the cause of water conservation, women empowerment, skill building, and education of children. The Keep India Smiling Foundational Scholarship Program launched in 2019 offers deserving candidates, who lack resources, foundational support through scholarships and mentorship in the fields of sports, academics, and community betterment programs.
The company’s CSR initiatives are organised under three thematic areas: Oral Healthcare Education, Keep India Smiling, and Water Access, Augmentation & Waste Management Program. Through these programs, they focus on enlightening school children through oral health education and tobacco prevention sensitization, empowering women through livelihoods, financial and digital literacy and providing communities with access to safe drinking water, water for sanitation, water availability for agriculture and farm-based activities. We are also impacting smiles for life of children suffering from cleft and palate deformities.
33. Capgemini
Capgemini is a global business and technology transformation partner, helping organizations to accelerate their dual transition to a digital and sustainable world, while creating tangible impact for enterprises and society. It is a responsible and diverse group of 340,000 team members in more than 50 countries.
With its strong over 55-year heritage, Capgemini is trusted by its clients to unlock the value of technology to address the entire breadth of their business needs. It delivers end-to-end services and solutions leveraging strengths from strategy and design to engineering, all fuelled by its market leading capabilities in AI, cloud and data, combined with its deep industry expertise and partner ecosystem.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 59,83,12,001 on CSR initiatives.
Capgemini drives impactful Digital Inclusion initiatives hand in hand with NGOs, social innovation organizations and clients across 4 main streams – Digital Literacy, Digital Academy, Tech4Positive Futures and Advocacy & Thought Leadership, all of which are supported/enabled by employee engagement.
Through the Digital Literacy program, the company provides access to digital devices to the most excluded, impart foundational digital skills to the digitally uninformed/untrained to help them take their first steps towards digital autonomy, and aim to raise digital awareness and inspire young people and women to pursue careers in tech.
Since its inception in 2019, work is done with local NGO partners to empower the most excluded and have supported almost 330,000 beneficiaries in less than two years.
Tech4Positive Futures is an initiative, launched in 2019, leveraging innovative, technology-led, ecosystem-enabled solutions to solve some of the world’s key societal and environmental challenges.
Capgemini is committed to providing its top talent and the financial resources required to bring these ideas to life and deliver social impact at scale. The company claims it has delivered 79 Tech4Positive Futures solutions so far with hundreds of employees across 15 countries taking part in the global challenge and presenting impressive solutions to a range of problems: food insecurity & hunger in schools, digital exclusion, maternal mortality rates, carbon footprint etc.
34. L&T Technology Services Limited
Larsen & Toubro (L&T) was founded in the year 1938 by Henning Holck-Larsen and Soren Kristian Toubro. The company offers a wide range of services including construction, thereby contributing to the development of the country. Larsen & Toubro is an engineering giant with revenue in excess of USD 27 billion. With operations in over 25 countries and growing annual revenue that now surpasses USD 1.2 billion, the company works with organizations who design, develop or deliver products and services.
Long before CSR was mandated by the Companies Act 2013, L&T was providing health and educational services to the underprivileged around its campuses. Today, L&T’s CSR programmes are well-established, focusing on areas that align with the global and national matrices of development: water & sanitation, health, education and skill-building.
In FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 22.8 crores on CSR initiatives benefitting over 77,070 people. The company’s CSR endeavours are aimed at addressing critical areas such as water development, healthcare provision in remote regions, and skill enhancement for the underprivileged.
In the FY 24, in partnership with the United Way of Bengaluru, L&T maintained the restoration of Bidruguppe Chitra Lake through de-weeding of the invasive plants and removal of macro and micro plastics from the water body. This partnership also facilitated the planting of 5400 saplings and facilitated livelihood for 8 workers. In partnership with Yuva Mitra, the company formulated a water security plan to provide water for agriculture and drinking in five villages in Nandurbar, Maharashtra’s aspirational district.
In partnership with the Indian Cancer Society, the company launched a two part project; one aspect focuses on prevention, while the other provides support post-cancer diagnosis. Prevention efforts include awareness camps and screening programs, while support after diagnosis involves partially funding treatment and providing survivor kits.
In partnership with the Vatsalaya Foundation, the company launched an initiative to manufacture and distribute biodegradable sanitary napkins made from banana fiber to adolescent girls and women in Belagavi, Karnataka, to improve menstrual hygiene.
Larsen & Toubro in partnership with the Simple Deeds Foundation initiated a project to impart four core Foundational Learning Skills (FLS): literacy, numeracy, cognitive skills, and socio-emotional skills. This initiative seeks to establish a strong foundation at an early age for comprehensive development. It benefited 1,151 students.
The company has partnered with the NMIPC Technology Innovation Hub at IIT Hyderabad to support their R&D projects on Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) and Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (CV2X) technology in the transportation sector. It has provided part funding towards setting up Hardware Security Lab to IIT Mumbai.
In partnership with eVidyaloka, L&T launched an innovative digital classroom program, revolutionizing education for underprivileged students. This initiative provides students in grades 5 to 8 access to online lessons in Science, Mathematics, and English, delivered in regional languages.
35. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited
Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) is an integrated oil and gas company. It carries out production of oil and natural gas, refining of crude oil and marketing and distribution of petroleum products. The company also focuses on renewable energy. Bharat Petroleum is a Maharatna Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), and its journey from being an Oil and Gas Company in India to a Fortune 500 oil refining, exploration and marketing conglomerate is commendable.
Contribution towards society and working for the welfare of the underprivileged is ingrained within BPCL corporate values. Even before the CSR mandate came into effect, BPCL has contributed significantly to the development of communities nationwide. BPCL CSR has consistently contributed towards the goal of achieving Sustainable Development and made significant progress in the core thrust areas of Education, Skill Development, Water Conservation, Community Development and Health & Hygiene.
Under the umbrella of “enabling quality education”, BPCL focuses on imparting holistic education, preferably through the usage of technology, apart from catering to adequate infrastructural facilities, access to education and improvement of education systems, which are clearly measurable in impact assessments. The gamut of interventions, mainly for the needy and underprivileged population, should lead to improved literacy and education in its true sense, which can enable the target group to aspire for higher education and, eventually, sustainable.
The company’s water conservation efforts are closely linked to engaging communities within their own ecosystems & making them self-reliant. This also includes making available safe drinking water, technology for the creation of infrastructure related to freshwater generation, meaningful utilisation of the water resources, regeneration of water bodies and such allied interventions.
The Company spent a total of Rs 158.19 crores on its CSR initiatives in FY 2023-24. BPCL undertakes several initiatives to benefit marginalized communities in small towns and villages. The CPSE identified 25 aspirational districts across 10 states of India and spent a total of Rs 6.23 crore in FY 2023-24.
In FY 2023-24, the PSU supported the construction and renovation of educational facilities to create a better learning environment for children. BPCL provided a smart class set-up, computer sets and photocopiers to schools, ensuring that students and teachers had access to essential technology.
Under community development, BPCL undertakes projects such as the construction of community halls, toilets, and other essential facilities in rural and urban areas. The company also promotes sports and recreational activities through the construction of sporting arenas and installation of sports equipment at various locations.
36. Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL)
Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Indian Oil) is the country’s largest integrated and diversified energy company. Indian Oil’s presence across the entire hydrocarbon value chain allows it to create sustainable business outcomes. As a ‘Maharatna’ company, it addresses the multiple energy needs of the nation including oil, gas, petrochemicals, and alternative energy sources.
The company is the leading oil and gas PSU from India featuring on 116th position in the Fortune ‘Global 500’ list. IOCL has set a visionary goal to achieve operational Net-Zero Emissions by 2046, aligning with India’s broader target of Net-Zero by 2070.
During the FY 2024, as against the CSR budget of Rs 422.42 crores (2% of the average profit of the previous three years), the Company spent a higher sum of Rs. Rs. 457.71 crores benefitting over 117.66 lakh people through more than 600 CSR projects.
Indian Oil’s CSR projects are focused on thrust areas of drinking water, healthcare, sanitation, education, skill development, rural development, environment protection and empowerment of women with an aim to promote inclusive growth and equitable development of the marginalised sections of society.
IOCL’s CSR initiatives are also bringing about positive transformation in the lives of prison inmates and juveniles through Parivartan and Nayi Dishayen projects that have been successful in instilling discipline, teamwork and perseverance in the beneficiaries and giving them a sense of purpose through sports.
During 2023-24, the Company allocated a substantial portion of its CSR budget, amounting to Rs 290.03 Crore (63.36% of the total CSR expenditure) to the thematic areas of ‘Health and Nutrition’ as per the guidelines set forth by the Department of Public Enterprises (DPEs) for CSR expenditure by Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs). IOCL demonstrated its commitment to the upliftment of aspirational districts by spending Rs 47.26 Crore in 40 aspirational districts during the year, assigned by the DPEs.
In FY 2023-24, the Company, under its CSR initiative of Intensive TB elimination programme, spread its wings to various states of the country including Tamil Nadu and Haryana, wherein the Company provided 192 TB diagnostic (rapid molecular test) machines to Tamil Nadu and 22 handheld X-ray Machines to Haryana.
During 2023-24, the Company made provision for various cancer care equipment at Silchar Cancer Centre, Silchar; Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre, Varanasi; Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Muzaffarpur; Dr B Barooah Cancer Institute, Guwahati, Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Mullanpur and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Visakhapatnam etc.
In the area of Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, the Company undertook “Project Divyajyoti” to train 80 ‘Divyangjans’ for roles in customer care and retail sales. This is a fully residential programme, conducted in partnership with the Skill Council for Persons with Disability (SCPwD). It aims to equip participants with essential skills for professional success.
In collaboration with the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), New Delhi, CSR project ‘Pratidhi’ aimed at providing skill training to 180 transgender, in Mumbai, a community often marginalised and underserved.
CSR programme Indian Oil Vidushi launched in 2018, offers specialised coaching and mentorship to young women after completing their class XII education, preparing them for competitive engineering exams. In the academic year 2023-24, out of the 60 Vidushis, 24 girls have qualified the JEE Mains 2024 exam and 8 girls have qualified in JEE advanced exam. During 2023-24, the Company incurred an expenditure of around Rs 3.22 Crore under this initiative.
37. Gland Pharma Limited
Established in Hyderabad in 1978 as a contract manufacturer of small volume liquid parenteral products, Gland Pharma today is one of the largest and fastest growing generic injectables manufacturing companies, with a global footprint across 60 countries, including the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, India and other markets. Operating primarily under a business to business (B2B) model, the company is known for its track record in the pharmaceutical research and development, manufacturing and marketing of complex injectables.
The Company spent a total of Rs 26.7 crores on its CSR initiatives in FY 2023-24 with over 15 projects benefitting over 51,000 students. Gland Pharma’s CSR initiatives focus on education, health, community development, environmental protection, and wildlife conservation. Gland Pharma was honoured at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2023 for its contribution to society in the category of Education & Skill Training.
Gland Pharma Limited performs Corporate Social Responsibility through its public charitable trust, Gland-Fosun Foundation. The company’s ‘Free Breakfast Programme’ is providing free breakfast-cum-health support to underprivileged children studying in Government schools and lactating and expecting mothers in Anganwadi centres of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
The Company contributes to Nehru Zoological Park (Hyderabad) for the upkeep of its numerous wild birds and animals. Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), the company has contributed Rs 1.2 Cr to a ‘Community Cattle Centre’ set up by the Government of Telangana at Siddipet.
38. Finolex Cables Limited
Founded in 1958 by Pralhad P Chhabria and Kishan P Chhabria – the early start saw Finolex donning the role of a copper cable manufacturer. Today, Finolex offers an extensive array of solutions, including PVC Insulated Industrial Cables, FinoGreen PVC Insulated Industrial Cables, PVC Insulated Single Core and Multicore Flexible Industrial Cables, Rodent Repellent Multicore Flexible Industrial Cables, PVC Insulated Winding Wires and a myriad of other cutting-edge solutions.
The company spent Rs 9.45 crores as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure for the FY 2023-24, as claimed in its Annual Report. Major focus areas include Education and Skill Development Healthcare Initiatives, Environmental Sustainability, Community Development, Women Empowerment and Livelihood Enhancement.
In FY 2023-24, Finolex Cables Limited provided a bus to Ankur Vidya Mandir, Pune and a school van to AIMs Seva Ashram to improve student transportation, renovated a residential house at SAMPARC Orphanage in Bhaje (Dist. Pune) and provided computers to boost digital literacy among orphanage students.
To foster healthcare, the company collaborated with the Sadhu Vaswani Mission and Rotary Club to distribute free artificial limbs, provided a cardiac ICU monitor to Dinanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune. Finolex Cables Limited provided a surveillance vehicle and 22 bikes to the Roorkee Police to support rural development and improve community safety. As part of its social welfare initiative, the company provided an ambulance to the Mother Teresa Mission, to support their efforts in providing emergency medical care and assistance.
39. Tech Mahindra
Tech Mahindra is a part of the Mahindra Group, founded in 1945, one of the largest and most admired multinational federation of companies having presence over 100 countries. It enjoys a leadership position in farm equipment, utility vehicles, information technology and financial services in India and is the world’s largest tractor company by volume. It has a strong presence in renewable energy, agriculture, logistics, hospitality and real estate.
The Mahindra Group has a clear focus on leading ESG globally, enabling rural prosperity and enhancing urban living, with a goal to drive positive change in the lives of communities and stakeholders to enable them to Rise. Tech Mahindra claims to be the only Indian company in the world to receive the HRH The Prince of Wales’ Terra Carta Seal for its commitment to creating a sustainable future.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 112.4 crores on CSR projects and activities across India directly benefitting over 1.10 lakh people and indirectly benefitting over 14.6 lakh people as claimed in its annual report. The Company engages with vulnerable and disadvantaged, marginalised communities through its CSR programmes. Over 50% of Tech Mahindra’s CSR beneficiaries are girls and women, including a significant number Persons with Disabilities (PwDs).
The company boasts of a wide-range of CSR activities in areas of education, mental health awareness and welfare and skill development. CSR initiatives are mainly carried out by Tech Mahindra Foundation and Mahindra Educational Institutions, Section 8 (erstwhile Section 25) Companies promoted by the Company. Tech Mahindra Foundation essentially works with children, youth and teachers from disadvantaged urban communities in India, with a special focus on women and persons with disabilities.
Tech Mahindra channels its CSR efforts predominantly into education, employability, and disability support. These initiatives are spearheaded by wholly-owned subsidiaries, Tech Mahindra Foundation (TMF) and Mahindra Educational Institutions (MEI). While TMF focuses on thematic areas like Education, Employability and Disability, MEI collaborates with academic institutions and establishes new centres of technical learning to bolster educational quality.
Tech Mahindra addresses ‘No Poverty’ and ‘Zero Hunger’, through targeted CSR programmes and initiatives for socio-economic development of those at the lowest rung of the society. The Tech Mahindra Foundation implements several community development programmes under education and employability such as ARISE, ARISE+, SMART, SMART+.
Shikshaantar, envisioned as a programme for enhancing the capacity of government school teachers, has emerged as an important programme in the education portfolio of the Foundation. TMF has identified STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Math) as an important intervention area in school education, and as part of this has been running the Mobile Science Lab (MSL) and the Robotics Lab in Delhi.
Skills-for-Market Training (SMART) is the Foundation’s flagship programme in employability. It is built on the vision of an educated, enabled and empowered India, and the belief that educated and skilled youth are the country’s true strength. The programme started with 3 Centres in 2012 and is currently running over 80 Centres at 10 locations across India. In 2023-24, the company trained 22,270 young women and men under its SMART program, of which, 1,183 were persons with disabilities.
TMF made an important start in Financial Year 2023-24 in collaboration with the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), by launching Digital Skilling programs through the Skill India Digital portal, an initiative of Government of India. In this portal, TMF provided a course on Cybersecurity which, in just three months, has had over 26,000 users.
40. IndusInd Bank Limited
Established in 1994 by Srichand P Hinduja, the name ‘IndusInd’ Bank was inspired by the Indus Valley Civilisation – one of the greatest cultural examples of a combination of innovation with sound business and trade practices. IndusInd Bank is a universal Bank with a widespread banking footprint with over 2.5 crore customers, over 5,000 distribution points and nearly 2,000 branches across the country.
With ‘Sustainability’ at the core, the bank offers a wide array of products and services for individuals and corporates including microfinance, personal loans, personal and commercial vehicles loans, credit cards, SME loans. IBL is also a preferred banking partner for various Government entities, PSUs and corporates.
In the FY 2023-24, the bank spent Rs 132.72 crores on CSR initiatives with a focus on financial literacy, inclusion, supporting livelihoods, socioeconomic development, rural development, education, sports and job creation benefitting over 16 lakh people.
The bank’s CSR programs guided by the CSR policy are implemented with a mission of designing sustainable initiatives that empower and benefit marginalised and weaker sections of society, high-risk and high-stressed communities.
IndusInd Bank’s flagship Holistic Rural Development Program aligns with the Government of India’s ‘Transformation of Aspirational Districts’ initiative. It aims to raise income levels and improve the quality of life for rural populations in selected districts based on need assessments, interventions focus on enhancing primary livelihoods, building climate resilience, and empowering women. The project addresses agriculture, water, livelihood, health, and education, tackling key challenges in rural communities.
Through its Sustainable Environment programs and a focus on water stewardship projects, the bank tackles water scarcity and environmental degradation, emphasizing accountability and action with activities such as conservation of natural springs, roof rain and river water harvesting, afforestation, restoration and revival of traditional water bodies, and renewable energy initiatives.
IndusInd Bank’s CSR projects offer children and young adults holistic education, through its remedial, life skills and nutrition programs aiming to prepare them for employability and lift marginalized families out of poverty. The bank claims 2.15 lakh Students 6,055 teachers and 651 PWDs have been benefited by its Education CSR programs.
The Bank’s Inclusive Sports programs focus on inclusion across gender, differently-abled individuals, and the underprivileged, enhancing their talents and achieving sporting excellence, supporting over 1010 sportspersons, over 500 women athletes and 42 para-athletes.
IndusInd Bank Ltd secured the third position at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 under the Agriculture & Rural Development Category.
41. Bharat Aluminium Co Limited (BALCO)
BALCO was incorporated in year 1965 as the first Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) in India and since then it has been closely associated with the Indian Industrial Growth, in a pivotal role. In 2001 Govt. of India disinvested 51% shares of Bharat Aluminium Company Limited (BALCO) to Sterlite Industries (India) Limited (now known as Vedanta Limited). The Company focuses on mining bauxite, smelting, refining, and fabrication. BALCO markets its products in the United Kingdom, India, and Australia.
Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd secured the second position at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 under the Women Empowerment & Child Welfare Category.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 16.13 crores on CSR initiatives with projects focusing in education, health, sustainable livelihoods, women’s empowerment, sports and environmental sustainability. This year, BALCO’s CSR initiatives have benefited 1.69 lakh individuals residing in 123 villages across four districts of Chhattisgarh, the company mentions in its annual report.
CSR Project Connect focuses on improving the learning environment in nearby government schools by creating an enabling environment with a focus on improving Student’s Grades, providing them with Career Counselling. Also, to build a more conducive environment of learning, capacity building training was organized for Govt. teachers on Teaching pedagogy and practical based models.
Nand Ghar, an initiative undertaken by Vedanta under the Anil Agarwal Foundation, in collaboration with the Ministry of Women and Child Development (MoWCD), aims to improve pre-school education and digital learning. During the year, 58 Nand Ghars spread over the district of Korba & Kawardha in Chhattisgarh benefitted 5,051 children & mothers. 25 Nand Ghars in Kawardha are now handed over to the ICDS department for sustained outcomes.
CSR project ‘Mor Jal Mor Maati’ focuses on improving surface water management with existing resources, augmenting irrigation facilities, equipping farmers with the latest farming techniques, and promoting multi-cropping to reduce the dependence on rainfall. During the year, 4,749 Farmers benefited and cumulatively brought 530+ acres of land under secured irrigation in 32 villages.
CSR project Vedanta Skill School focuses on imparting vocational training to rural youth, dropouts, and the unemployed population of Chhattisgarh with a special focus on our operational areas and links them with gainful employment opportunities. During the year, 1,241 youth trained in 3 skilling centres running in Korba, Kawardha & Surguja out of which 81% secured employment placements or engaged in entrepreneurial pursuits.
Arogya is a comprehensive CSR initiative providing quality Primary health care services, both preventive and curative through Rural Health Posts, Maternal & Child Health with special focus on reduction of malnourishment & anemia, awareness campaigns on HIV, TB and De-addiction. During the year, the program reached out to 49,963 people through curative and preventive healthcare services.
42. Tata Steel Limited
Established in India as Asia’s first integrated private steel company in 1907, Tata Steel Limited or Tata Steel today is one of the most profitable and lowest-cost producers of steel in the world, with captive iron ore mines and collieries located near the company’s manufacturing facilities in Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar.
Tata Steel, with an annual crude steel capacity of 35 million tonnes per annum (MnTPA), is 10th largest steel producer in the world. It is one of the few steel operations that are fully integrated – from mining to the manufacturing and marketing of finished products. Tata Steel, together with its subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures, is spread across five continents with an employee base of over 77,000.
Tata Steel serves communities, particularly the most marginalised and voiceless sections of society, through its CSR. The company implements its CSR programmes primarily through Tata Steel Foundation. In FY 2023-24, Tata Steel spent Rs 580 crores on CSR initiatives impacting over 4 million lives, which is way more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 548.58 crore).
The CSR initiatives of Tata Steel focus on education, health, water, livelihood, and rural and urban infrastructure and are in alignment with key focus areas of the Tata Group. The Company also undertakes community-centric interventions in the areas of Education, Health, Livelihoods and Infrastructure.
The Steel manufacturing giant bridges socio-economic gaps among vulnerable communities residing in remote locations of Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal. Implemented through Tata Steel Foundation, the development initiatives seek to strengthen human, natural and cultural capital in the ecosystem.
In FY 24, Maternal and Newborn Survival Initiative (MANSI+) ensured 100% coverage in three districts of Kolhan division in Jharkhand and replicated in Gumla district; Keonjhar district of Odisha became the first district to declare itself a Child Labour-free Zone through the Education Signature Programme; SABAL – dignity through ability, reached a 100% disability entitlements coverage at Noamundi block in Jharkhand.
Tata Steel’s CSR initiative, “Masti ki Paathshala,” is designed to address the pressing issue of child labour and abuse by providing education and a safe environment for marginalized children. The program operates through both residential bridge schools (RBCs) and non-residential bridge schools (NRBCs). Its primary objective is to integrate children engaged in the worst forms of child labour, such as rag-picking, begging, and brick-kiln work, into the formal education system.
Tata Steel’s CSR initiative, the Education Signature Programme, is focused on developing a model that can be replicated and scaled up to achieve the universalization of elementary education (UEE) within the framework of the Right to Education (RTE) in India. The program aims to address three key aspects of schooling: Access, Learning, and Governance, with the ultimate goal of making education socially relevant and inclusive.
43. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL)
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) is an amalgamation of the erstwhile foreign oil companies ESSO and Caltex, which were taken over by the Government of India in 1974 and 1976 respectively. HPCL is a Central Public Sector Undertaking, with a subscribed capital of Rs. 339.33 Crores.
HPCL owns & operates 2 major refineries producing a wide variety of petroleum fuels & specialties, one in Mumbai (West Coast) of 7.5 Million Metric Tonnes Per Annum (MMTPA) capacity and the other in Visakhapatnam, (East Coast) with a capacity of 8.3 MMTPA. HPCL also owns and operates the largest Lube Refinery in the country producing Lube Base Oils of international standards, with a capacity of 428 TMT.
HPCL incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary named HPCL Renewable & Green Energy Ltd (HPRGE) in January 2024 to enhance its focus on sustainability, leverage market opportunities and manage risks more effectively.
In the FY 2023-24 HPCL spent Rs 111.9 crore as CSR expenditure. HPCL actively supports projects that empower individuals and communities, driving sustainable social and economic development. In the FY 24, major focus was on Education which included providing educational support to adolescent girls through Project Nanhi Kali, providing scholarship to socially-economically disadvanteged sections, providing basic facilities in government schools, Mentoring and coaching under-privileged students in UTs of J&K and Ladakh in collaboration with the Indian Army through Project Super-50.
In Healthcare, HPCL supported individuals belonging from lower economic section, especially children for conducting heart surgeries through CSR project ‘Dil without Bill’ and supported people with disabilities by providing wheelchairs scooters, augmented communication devices, low floor bikes etc.
Through CSR project ADAPT, HPCL has been providing Education therapeutic and skill training support for children with special needs. The CPSE is also working to empower children, lactating and expecting mothers in underserved communities.
HPCL secured the second position at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 under the Education & Skill Training Category.
44. Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services
Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited, also known as Mahindra Finance, is a prominent Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC) in India. It is among the top financers in the country with over 1000 offices. Mahindra finance is a whilly owned subsidiary of the Mahindra Group.
Mahindra Finance stongly believes in the interdependency of companies and the communities they operate in. Therefore, it strives to contribute to the upliftment of the communities, serving as a catalyst to growth and development. In FY24, Mahindra Finance spent Rs. 29.96 Cr. on its CSR initiatives, positively impacting the lives of over 120,000 people. Furthermore, over 85 per cent of the employees of the company, amounting to 22,600 employees, contributed more than 125,700 person hours in various volunteering activities including blood donation drives, tree plantations, etc.
Mahindra Finance conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of education, women empowerment, environment, livelihood, and healthcare. The company’s flagship project ‘Swabhimaan’ received the special commendation awards at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2023 under the education and skill training category.
Mahindra Finance has signed the Science Based Targets initiative for reduction of its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 50.4 per cent by 2032. It has committed to achieve net zero emissions target by 2070.
45. ICICI Bank
ICICI Bank is one of the top players in India’s banking industry and is a cruicial player in country’s economic stability. It is among the RBI’s list of too-big-to-fail banks in the country. Then bank has a network of 6613 branches across India. In addition it also has presence in 11 countries.
CSR has been a long standing commitment for ICICI Bank. The bank conducts its CSR initiatives through ICICI Foundation in the thematic areas of healthcare, environment, supporting livelihood, and community development. IN FY24, the ICICI Bank spent over Rs. 518.8 Cr. on its CSR initiatives.
In the area of healthcare, ICICI bank has extended support for cancer care, cardiac care, eye care and trauma care by providing equipment, funds for surgeries, undertaking capacity building, organising eye screening camps and support for emergency care. In the area of environment and ecology, extensive watershed and rainwater harvesting projects were taken up during the year as part of water conservation projects. Till March 31, 2024, total water harvesting potential of about 25.8 billion litres has been created across rural India.
In addition, ICICI Bank has been extending loans/providing financial support to less privileged women of the country through Self Help Groups – Bank Linkage Programme (SHGs-BLP) for over a decade, to give a boost to their entrepreneurial spirit. These initiatives have positively impacted 10.49 million women across the country through approximately 8.9 lakh SHGs loans as on March 31, 2024.
46. Amazon
Amazon is an e-commerce giant with presence in over 20 countries.  The company has a significant reach; and it takes advantage of this reach to promote social welfare.
Amazon conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of environmental sustainability, women’s empowerment, and community development.
In the field of environmental sustainability, Amazon India has already surpassed its 2025 target by deploying 10,000 electric vehicles (EVs) in its delivery fleet across more than 500 cities in India. This initiative not only reduces carbon emissions but also improves the air quality in the urban and remote areas. The company has also launched a pilot project to test long-range electric heavy trucks on the Bengaluru-Chennai highway, exploring the potential of sustainable long-haul freight transportation. In addition, Amazon India has also committed to returning more water to communities than it uses in its direct operations by 2027, with projects that will begin in in January 2025 to restore lakes and increase the potential of capturing more water.
In the area of women empowerment and community development, Amazon India installed automatic sanitary machines in rural areas to promote menstrual hygiene awareness. It has also established advanced sanitary napkin manufacturing units in several cities, providing sustainable livelihoods for rural women.
Through its Global Month of Volunteering in May 2024, Amazon India saw record participation from over 1.1 lakh employees, addressing key focus areas such as women empowerment, sustainability, food security, and education. The company has also launched initiatives to provide digital financial literacy to 2,000 women from underserved communities and facilitate enrollment in social entitlement schemes. These efforts demonstrate Amazon India’s commitment to creating lasting benefits for communities and contributing to sustainable development across various sectors.
47. Ultratech Cement
UltraTech Cement Limited, is a leading cement and ready-mix-concrete company. The Company is the largest in India, and 5th largest in the world. It is a subsidiary of Aditya Birla Group.
Just like its parent company, Ultratech Cement takes its responsibility towards society very seriously. The company spent Rs. 136 Cr. on its CSR projects in FY24 positively reaching over 1.8 million beneficiaries. The company conducts its CSR initiatives in the fields of social empowerment and welfare, infrastructure development, sustainable livelihood, healthcare, and education.
UltraTech is determind to reduce its GHG emissions. The Company has committed to reduce its Scope 1 emissions by 27 per cent and Scope 2 emissions by 69 per cent by 2032 from the base year of 2017. These GHG emission targets have been validated by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). As part of EP100 commitment, UltraTech also targets to double energy productivity by FY35, from the base year of FY10.
48. NTPC
NTPC Limited is the largest integrated power company in India. The PSU contributes 1/4th of the power requirement of the country. With a diverse portfolio of thermal, hydro, solar, and wind power plants, the company is committed to adopting best practices, fostering innovation, and embracing clean energy technologies for a greener future.
CSR has been synonymous with NTPC’s core business of power generation. Since its inception, the Company has been very sensitive to the needs of the neighbouring community and persons whose livelihood has been affected due to the establishment of a power plant. In the FY 2023-24, the PSU spent Rs. 200.57 crore on CSR initiatives in the core areas of education, water, health, and sanitation.
In addition to enriching lives through CSR activities, NTPC undertakes numerous initiatives to ensure environmental sustainability. These include large-scale tree plantation and maintenance, installation of rooftop solar PV systems on power stations, public utility buildings, and schools, as well as the implementation of vermicomposting, bio-methanation plants, and paper recycling machines.
Furthermore, NTPC Limited and Oil India Limited have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to explore collaboration in the areas of renewable energy, green hydrogen and its derivatives, and decarbonization initiatives including through use of geothermal energy. Through the MoU, the two Maharatna giants intend to enhance their footprint in the domain of renewable energy and foray into sustainable solutions towards achieving the nation’s target of achieving Net Zero by the year 2070.
49. Cipla
Cipla is a global pharmaceutical company that is committed to making medicines accessible and affordable. Cipla is the third-largest pharma company in India and the third-largest in the private pharma market of South Africa.
‘Caring for Life’ has been at the forefront of Cipla’s business philosophy and remains the principal purpose of doing business. This philosophy is seamlessly integrated into Cipla’s people, products and processes and is the foundation and underlying objective of the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Cipla carries out the majority of its CSR initiatives through Cipla Foundation. The key areas of focus of the company’s CSR programmes include health, education, skilling, environmental sustainability, contributing to the government funds for socio-economic development, research and development, rural development, and disaster management. In FY24, the company spent Rs. 72.49 Cr. on CSR initiatives, benefitting over 475,000 individuals.
Cipla has also committed to achieve carbon neutrality by 2025.
50. Sun Pharma
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Sun Pharma) is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. It is currently the No. 1 pharmaceutical company in India manufacturing and marketing a range of pharmaceutical formulations covering a broad spectrum of chronic and acute therapies.
Sun Pharma In FY24. Sun Pharma spent Rs. 65.2 Cr. on CSR. The company conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of healthcare, education, water & sanitation, rural development, and environmental conservation. Their Malaria Elimination Demonstration Project (MEDP) is a Public-Private partnership between the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Government of Madhya Pradesh (GoMP), and the Foundation for Disease Elimination and Control of India (FDEC India). FDEC India was established by Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. as a not-for-profit entity.
51. Aurobindo Pharma
Aurobindo Pharma is one of the largest multinational pharma companies in the country. The company strongly believes in responsible business practicies involving all of its stakeholders in the decision making progress and its operations.
Aurobindo Pharma conducts its CSR initiatives through Aurobindo Pharma Foundation. In FY 24, the company spent Rs. 37.25 Cr. on CSR, touching the lives of over 8.5 lakh beneficiaries. The focus areas of its CSR projects include: education, healthcare, sanitation, rural water systems, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, women empowerment, rural development, and environmental sustainability.
52. Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited
Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, also known as Jio, is a telcommunications company in India. It is the largest mobile network of India, and third largest of the world.
Jio, as part of Reliance Group, takes corporate social responsibility very seriously. It conducts its CSR initiatives through Reliance Foundation, headed by Smt. Nita Ambani. In FY24, the company spent Rs. 403 Cr. on CSR. Of this, Rs. 268 Cr. was contributed to Reliance Foundation, Rs. 90 Cr. was contributed to Sir HN Hospital Trust, Rs. 30 Cr. was contributed to Reliance Foundation Youth Sports, Rs. 10 Cr. was contributed to Sir Hurkisondas Nurrotamdas Hospital and Research Centre, and Rs. 5 Cr. was contributed to Dhirubhai Ambani Foundation which are related parties.
The CSR initiatives are focused in the areas of rural development, health, education, sports, environment, ecology, animal welfare, arts, culture, heritage, disaster management and women empowerment.
53. Tata Motors
Tata Motors Limited is a leading global automobile manufacturer of cars, utility vehicles, pick-ups, trucks and buses. The company focuses on engineering and tech-enabled automotive solutions, catering to the future of mobility. It is a market leader in commercial vehicles and one of the top four in the passenger vehicles market in India.
In FY 2023-24, Tata Motors spent a total of Rs. 21.59 Cr. on its CSR initiatives, empowering the lives of over 10.03 lakh people across the country. Moreover, employees of Tata Motors volunteered for 1.17 lakh hours, improving the reach of the company’s CSR.
Tata Motors’ CSR initiatives are strategically aligned with the Common Minimum Programme (CMP), ensuring that their developmental efforts benefit communities across India while also catering to local interests through Location Specific Projects (LSP). When it comes to CSR, they specifically focus on health, education, employability and environmental protection.
Furthermore, Tata Motors has committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2040 for its passenger vehicles (PV) business, and 2045 for its commercial vehicles (CV) business. The company has already reduced its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 44 per cent in the larst 3 years.
54. Siemens
Siemens is a German multinational conglomerate dealing with products and technology in the energy, industry and healthcare sectors. As a technology company, Siemens is driven by the aspiration to address the world ́s most profound challenges by leveraging the convergence of digitalisation and sustainability.
Siemens has integrated sustainability into its business strategy, with a focus on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance. The company has set ambitious sustainability targets and identified key decarbonization levers.
In FY 2024, Siemens reduced its Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 55 per cent as compared to 2019, progressing towards its climate neutrality target. The company also achieved 24 per cent of women in top leadership positions and reduced its gender pay gap to 3 per cent.
55. Bajaj Finance Limited
Bajaj Finance Limited BFL), a subsidiary of Bajaj Finserv Limited, is a deposit-taking Non-Banking Financial Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It is primarily involved in the business of lending and acceptance of deposits.
Drawing inspiration from teachings of Late Shri Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, the Group launched Bajaj Beyond, the Group’s new identity for all its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and charitable programmes, with a sharp focus on skill development. Under Bajaj Beyond, the Group has committed Rs. 5,000 Cr. to social impact initiatives over 5 years which will benefit over 2 crore youth.
Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
In FY24, Bajaj Finance spent Rs. 179.52 Cr. for its CSR initiatives.
56. Muthoot Finance Limited
Muthoot Finance is the largest gold loan NBFC in India. The company aids in bringing the section of society that has gold jewelery but no access to credits into the formal finance sector. This helps them get affordable loans with clear terms, without having to rely on expensive moneylenders. Muthoot Group is committed to improving the rural life and lifestyles.
In FY24 Muthoot Finance spent more than Rs. 100 Cr. for its CSR initiatives, which impacted the lives of over 6 lakh individuals. Over the past year, the company implemented several projects that focus on healthcare, livelihood support, education, renewable energy, and infrastructure development. These initiatives were designed to promote holistic development and empower communities to achieve self-reliance and sustainable growth.
Furthermore, the company has pledged to use 100 per cent renewable energy in office buildings owned by it by 2030.
57. United Spirits Limited
United Spirits Limited, a subsidiary of Diageo India, is an alcoholic beverages company and the world’s second-largest spirits company by volume.
In the FY24, the company spent Rs 20.95 Cr. on CSR initiatives, which is more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 18.64 Cr.).
The company, through its CSR initiatives, aims to empower the communities as stakeholders in their own development through a collaborative, and sustainable approach, underscored by responsible utilization of resource in partnership with community-based institutions, civil society organizations, value chain partners and industry peers.
It aims to undertake sustainable initiatives under agreed focus areas, leading to measurable progress, especially in areas of education, maternal and child health indicators, economic wellbeing and environment. Above all, it seeks to address the harmful effects of alcohol abuse in society and advocate responsible consumption of beverage alcohol, thereby creating a positive impact on society.
58. NMDC
NMDC is a Navratna PSU under the Ministry of Steel, Government of India. The company plays a significant role in the Indian mining and minerals sector. It is the largest iron ore producer in the country.
NMDC considers the socio-economic development of communities surrounding its mining operations a high priority. Which is why, it has been working to enable progress and development by empowering women, upskilling youth, generating employment opportunities and addressing public health. The flagship social initiatives of NMDC – Shiksha Sahayog Yojana and Balika Shiksha Yojana have empowered the journeys of thousands of tribal children with scholarships for higher education and nursing education, making them agents of change in their communities.
In FY24, NMDC spent Rs. 150 Cr. on CSR initiatives, focusing on inclusive growth and equitable development.
59. Eicher Motors Limited
Eicher Motors Limited (EML) is a global automobile company, headquartered in Chennai, India. Eicher Motors Limited (EML) is the parent of Royal Enfield, an iconic and the oldest motorcycle brand. It has a reputation for creating beautifully crafted motorcycles since 1901, distinguished by authenticity, simplicity and an uncompromising blend of tradition and technology, giving it a cult status among motorcycle enthusiasts. EML’s joint venture with Sweden’s AB Volvo, VE Commercial Vehicles (VECV), spearheads the commercial vehicle operations. With new-generation fleets and a focus on innovative engineering, VECV leads commercial transportation modernisation in India and other developing countries.
EML is dedicated to the holistic growth and development of communities, especially in the Himalayas – Royal Enfield’s spiritual home, and in Tamil Nadu where it manufactures motorcycles. From creating local livelihood opportunities to developing local areas, protecting Intangible Cultural Heritage, promoting winter sports, environmental conservation and responsible tourism, EML through its CSR arm, the Eicher Group Foundation, has been driving impactful change in several parts of the country.
EML’s objective is to build resilience in communities and nature, with a focus on the Indian Himalayan region as part of Royal Enfield’s Social Mission. By 2030, it aims to partner with 100 Himalayan communities in this journey so that they are adapting and thriving even in the face of climate change. It also aims to catalyse a global movement of one million riders to explore sustainably and become active stakeholders in the mission to ‘Leave Every Place Better’.
In FY24, EML spent Rs. 18.08 Cr. on its CSR initiatives, directly benefitting the lives of over 1.2 lakh people and indirectly benefitting over 1 crore people.
60. Torrent Power Limited
Torrent has always been committed to the cause of social service and has consistently channelised a part of its resources and activities, such that it positively impacts society socially, ethically and environmentally. The Company has taken up various CSR initiatives improving the quality of life of the people and making quality value addition to the society. The Company channelizes its CSR activities in light of its guiding principle as enumerated by its founder- Shri U. N. Mehta: “Giving back to the society, for all the years of care, support and nurturance that is being bestowed upon the organization”.
In FY24, Torrent Power Limited spent Rs. 43.07 Cr. on its CSR initiatives, focused on areas including Community Healthcare, Education & Knowledge Enhancement and Art & Culture, and Ecology.
61. Maruti Suzuki India Limited
Maruti Suzuki India, holding the largest market share in the passenger vehicles space in India, plays a major role in the country’s growth and development through its operations as well as CSR.
In FY 2023-24, Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) spent Rs 110 crore in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. In accordance with the priorities for national development, the corporation implements Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes in the areas of community development, skill development, healthcare and road safety. The company was recognised for its CSR initiative in healthcare at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 as a second runner up.
The CSR of Maruti Suzuki India seeks to engage with the local community through village administration bodies (Panchayat) and village leaders to understand their diverse perspectives on local problems and find solutions to some of the most pressing issues. Based on the local context, the community development initiatives are focused on improving health, education, water and sanitation, and common community infrastructure.
Maruti under its CSR has set up 27 water ATMs across 25 villages at an affordable price, as part of CSR. Over 35,000 households within the local communities are benefitting through this initiative. Maruti has also been managing door-to-door household waste collection in 9 villages, benefitting more than 8,500 households.
62. Ashok Leyland Limited
Ashok Leyland, flagship of the Hinduja group, is the 2nd largest manufacturer of commercial vehicles in India, and the third largest manufacturer of buses in the world. In line with the philosophy of “Aap ki jeet, Hamari Jeet”, Ashok Leyland Limited has always been in the forefront of providing a dedicated approach to social development.
The CSR initiatives of Ashok Leyland are focused on the areas of conserving the environment, providing quality education, enhancing skills and access to healthcare facilities. Ashok Leyland spent Rs. 16.3 Cr. on CSR in FY24.
The flagship program of the company, “Road to School”, which started in 2015, carries out various activities to address the societal issues faced by underprivileged groups. Ashok Leyland’s “Jal Jeevan” Water initiatives has aided in instilling sustainable and effective irrigation practices among the small-scale marginalised farmers for better yield. The company has helped in construction of Roof Rainwater harvesting systems in the rural villages which has significantly alleviated the burden of marginalised rural women by reducing the drudgery of fetching safe drinking water way outside their community.
Ashok Leyland initiated Driver Health care initiative, wherein comprehensive health care services are provided including regular check-ups, general health screenings and awareness to improve overall well-being. By prioritising the health of truck drivers, this initiative not only enhances their quality of life but also contributes to safer roads and a more resilient transportation industry.
63. Dell International Services India
Dell International Services India is a subsidiariy of Dell Technologies Limited. It is a technology company that provides computer hardware and related services in India.
Dell International Services India has demonstrated a strong commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in India. In FY24 the company focused on several key areas to create a positive impact on society and the environment. One of the company’s significant initiatives is its Digital Inclusion program, which aims to improve the lives of 1 billion people through digital inclusion by 2030. In FY24, Dell was able to touch the lives of over 107 million people through its digital inclusion programs, partnerships, and innovations, contributing to a cumulative total of about 396 million people benefited since FY20.
Furthermore, Dell has committed to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions across scopes 1, 2, and 3 by 2050. As part of this commitment, Dell aims to source 75% of electricity from renewable sources across all its facilities by 2030, and 100% by 2040. Additionally, the company is working towards creating a circular economy, with a goal that by 2030, for every metric ton of product a customer buys, one metric ton will be reused or recycled.
64. Power Grid Corporation Of India Limited
Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (POWERGRID) is a Schedule ‘A’, ‘Maharatna’ Public Sector Enterprise of the government. It is India’s largest Electric Power Transmission Utility.
Power Grid Corporation of India considers CSR as an integral part of its operations. The company spent Rs. 330.48 Cr. on its CSR initiatives in FY24 focusing on areas including Rural Livelihood, Education, Health, Environment, and Skill Development.
Furthermore, Power Grid Corporation of India has set an ambitious target of developing a green at its premises. During FY24, the company planted 53885, resulting in a green cover consisting of total number of standing trees at 7,53,153 in its premises located across the length and breadth of the country. Additionally, during last 10 years 73,549 trees were planted under its CSR initiatives.
65. SBI Life Insurance
SBI Life is a life insurance company which was started as a joint venture between the State Bank of India and French financial institution BNP Paribas Cardif. Corporate Social Responsibility forms an integral part of the Company’s corporate principles and business philosophy. As a Company with a strong sense of values and commitment, SBI Life believes that profitability must go hand in hand with a sense of responsibility towards employees, stakeholders and the society.
In FY24, SBI Life Insurance spent Rs. 20.5 Cr. for CSR, benefitting the lives of over 105,000 people. With respect to its CSR programs, SBI Life primarily works towards the thematic areas of Education & Healthcare, with focus on women, children and marginalised sections of society as far as possible.
66. Bosch
Bosch is a leading supplier of technology and services in the areas of Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology in India. Additionally, Bosch has in India the largest development center outside Germany, for end-to-end engineering and technology solutions.
Social responsibility and welfare have been integral to Bosch Limited’s corporate culture since its inception. The company’s flagship CSR program “BRIDGE” is a short-term training initiative offering skill development opportunities to less-educated youth on industry-relevant courses to support their induction into entry- level employment. This program helps lesser-privileged, unemployed youth get suitable employment. The programs has reached to more than 75000 youth in the last 10 years.
In FY24, the company spent Rs. 23.3 Cr. on its CSR initiatives in India.
67. Shell Energy India Private Limited
Shell is an international energy company with expertise in the exploration, production, refining and marketing of oil and natural gas, and the manufacturing and marketing of chemicals. Shell is a diversified energy company in India with 13,000 employees, and presence in Integrated Gas, Downstream, Power, Renewable and Upstream.
Shell has always focused on contributing to the communities around which it operates. The company conducts its CSR initiatives in the areas of ecological balance, environmental sustainability, education, vocational skills, preventive healthcare, sanitation, and rural development. The company has been implementing significant CSR projects in and around Hazira, Gujarat, as well as in other parts of the country, collaborating with village institutions, NGOs, relevant government departments, and local stakeholders.
68. Hindustan Zinc
Hindustan Zinc is the world’s 6th largest producer of silver and India’s only integrated producer of silver, lead and zinc. HZL is a subsidiary of Vedanta Limited, which owns a 64.9% stake in the company, while the Government of India retains a 29.5% stake.
Anupam Nidhi, Head Corporate Social Responsibility, at Hindustan Zinc has said, “Hindustan Zinc has stayed invested in ensuring responsible growth not only from the business perspective but also for the larger community around. With 1.91 million beneficiary outreach in FY 2023-24, our programmes have expanded 3.8 times since FY 2019-20. One of the catalyst apart from our focus on systemic CSR, was co-creation at the grassroots. For us, co-creation is coming together of partners with aligned focus, a common mandate for creating a social shift intertwined with sustainable approaches. It is about acknowledging the inter-dependence, co-learning, open communication and transparency as crucial elements for fostering collaboration for shared objectives within.”
In FY24, HZL spent Rs. 269 Cr. on its CSR programs. The company conducts majority of its CSR through Anil Agarwal Foundation. During FY 2023-24, the company’s CSR interventions were spread across the operational areas of Rajasthan and Uttarakhand and beyond, in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Goa, Odisha, Punjab & Uttar Pradesh through its flagship project – Nand Ghar.
69. Welspun Living Limited
Welspun Living Limited, is textile manufacturing company headquartered in Mumbai. Founded by Balkrishan Goenka in 1985, the company produces home textile products such as bed linen, terry towels, rugs, and yarn.
Welspun Living’s commitment to environmental stewardship, social responsibility and governance are integral to its business strategy. The company spent Rs. 12.45 Cr. for its CSR initiatives in FY24, positively impacting the lives of over 8.4 lakh people. The CSR initiatives are focused in the areas of healthcare, education, sustainability, and women empowerment.
Furthermore, the company has achieved zero dependence on fresh water for manufacturing and has placed significant emphasis on eco-friendly practices, seamlessly integrating sustainability across its value chain.
70. Hyundai Motor India Limited
Hyundai Motor India Limited (HMIL) is the Indian subsidiary of the South Korean automobile manufacturer Hyundai Motor Company. It is the second largest car manufacturer in India.
Social responsibility has always remained a central focus for Hyundai Motor India. The company conducts most of its CSR initiatives through Hyundai Motor India Foundation. In FY24, Hyundai Motor India spent Rs. 54.17 Cr. for its CSR initiatives. The CSR initiatives are conducted in the areas of healthcare, environment, education, employability and employment, road safety, art, science technology. The HMIF CSR projects are aligned to the global vision “Progress for Humanity” and the three focus areas – Earth, Mobility and Hope.
71. Axis Bank Limited
Axis Bank is one of the first new generation private sector banks to have begun operations in 1994. The Bank offers the entire spectrum of financial services to customer segments covering Large and Mid-Corporates, MSME, Agriculture and Retail Businesses.
Axis Bank focuses its CSR initiatives in creating sustainable livelihood, promoting education and skills development, creating awareness amongst the public at large on public interest topics including financial literacy, facilitating and providing access to formal banking channels for the unbanked and under-banked, promoting environmental sustainability, and supporting health and sanitation initiatives.
The Bank undertakes its CSR activities through Axis Bank Foundation. The foundation reaches out and impacts the lives of millions of households across rural, suburban and urban India. Its work is around the core theme of ‘Sustainable Livelihoods’ wherein it works towards creating and strengthening rural livelihoods and imparting skilling to youth, including the differently abled, in rural and peri-urban areas.
In FY24, the bank spent Rs. 217.42 Cr. for its CSR initiatives.
72. Sobha
Sobha Limited is a real estate developer with a diverse portfolio of projects across India and the Middle East, founded in 1995 by P.N.C. Menon. The company has a presence in 27 cities across 14 states in India.
Sobha conducts its CSR initiatives through the Sri Kurumba Educational and Charitable Trust exemplify the core principle of ‘The Joy of Giving Back’. With an emphasis on compassionate social development, the focus of the initiatives is on making sustainable and impactful contributions to society’s most vulnerable populations.
Broadly, the focus areas of Sobha’s CSR projects include education, healthcare, support for the aged and needy, and women empowerment, all of which are central to the Trust’s commitment to social responsibility. It also implements various green initiatives to minimise its environmental impact and promote sustainability and a healthier ecosystem.
In FY24, Sobha spent Rs. 15 Cr. on its CSR projects.
73. Tata Chemicals
Tata Chemicals, part of Tata Group, is a leader in the chemical industry. The company has interests in chemicals, crop protection, and specialty chemistry products. The company operates globally, with a presence in India, Europe, North America, and Africa, and is the world’s second-largest soda ash producer. Tata Chemicals is focusing on green chemistry principles for its products, investing in innovation and sustainability, and expanding its portfolio to include nutritional sciences and advanced materials.
Being a Tata group Company, Tata Chemicals has strong commitment to social development. Tata Chemicals’ CSR initiatives include agriculture and livestock management, handicrafts and cluster development, natural resources management, environmental conservation, healthcare, nutrition, safe drinking water and sanitation, education, skill development, and women empowerment. For FY 2023-24, the company allocated ₹68.08 crore for its CSR initiatives.
The company implements its CSR activities primarily through the Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development (TCSRD), with projects spanning across Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh.
74. Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
The Kotak Mahindra Bank has been in business for 21 years now. The bank has a wide reach with about 1,869 branches across the country.
Kotak Mahindra Bank is conscious of the interdependencies between its economic activities and the ecosystem it operates in. Therefore, it has ensured that Environmental Social Governance (ESG) philosophy goes beyond a set of policies and practices and is an integral element of the culture of the bank.
The Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programmes are largely long-term, implemented in focused geographies, are sustainable and scalable, and aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and India’s development priorities.  Over the years, the bank has increased its CSR expenditure.
In FY 2023-2024, the firm spent Rs. 230.81 crores for its CSR initiatives which was more than the prescribed amount as mandated by law.
75. Mahindra And Mahindra Limited
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited, the flagship company of the Mahindra Group, is a mobility products and farm solutions provider. The company has grown rapidly since its inception in 1947.
Mahindra focuses its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives on driving positive and sustainable change in building resilient communities. Its core purpose states, “We will challenge conventional thinking and, through innovative use of all our resources, drive positive change in the lives of our stakeholders and communities across the world, to enable them to Rise”. It is amply evident that CSR is integral to and at the core of the company’s philosophy.
The flagship CSR initiative of the company, Project Nanhi Kali, has been continuing to empower underprivileged girls across India by supporting their education. Since its inception, Project Nanhi Kali has uplifted 6,94,557 underprivileged girls in 15 states through educational support. It creates girl-friendly ecosystems in underserved communities across India through regular engagements with parents and community stakeholders.
In FY24, Mahindra and Mahindra spent Rs. 112.74 Cr. for CSR. In addition, a total of 61,203 Mahindra and Mahindra employees invested 4,49,313 person-hours through platforms like ESOPs and MySeva, Mahindra Group employees dedicate their time to various social causes, creating substantial impact within communities.
76. Bajaj Auto Ltd (BAL)
Bajaj Auto Ltd. is the world’s 4th largest manufacturer for 2 & 3-wheelers. Bajaj Auto Ltd. features as India’s top exporter for consumer branded goods, registering an annual turnover of $3.5 billion. The company has three manufacturing plants in India and allying with distribution partners to penetrate markets in 75 countries.
In the FY 2023-24 Bajaj Auto Ltd spent Rs 25.85 crore as CSR expenditure as against a total CSR obligation of Rs 131.72 crore. Rest of the amount (Rs 105.87 crore) was transferred to Unspent CSR Account as per section 135(6).
Bajaj Engineering Skills Training (BEST) is a popular CSR initiative in collaboration with top NIRF-ranked universities and engineering colleges to make the youth competent and employable. The objective is to establish state-of-the-art centres with laboratories having world-class equipment to enable hands-on-skilling of engineers and diploma holders. The first BEST centre was recently inaugurated at the Symbiosis Institute of Technology, for 120 students – with an aim to expand with additional 15 universities.
The Bajaj Manufacturing Systems (BMS) Certification program aims to impart industry knowledge to ITI and polytechnic students, through a user-friendly Learning Management System. The program partners with technical institutions to provide exposure to students across 9 modules based on TPM practices implemented at Bajaj Auto. Over 3,000 students from government and private ITI institutes were certified, as mentions the company’s Annual Report.
The ‘Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship Program’ aims at aiding students from underprivileged backgrounds to pursue higher education in esteemed universities and colleges. With a meticulous selection process to identify eligible candidates, in FY 2024, scholarship/financial assistance was granted to 11 students for four years.
Youth Organization for Joining Action and Knowledge (YOJAK) offers an easily accessible platform tailored to needs of disadvantaged students, particularly girls, empowering them with essential skills and support pivotal for pursuing careers in Science Technology Engineering Mathematics (STEM) -related fields. With a network of 12 learning centres in Pune, YOJAK delivers academic excellence through subject-specific remedial classes alongside experiential learning and social support. In FY 2024, over 2,000 students from grades 8 to 12 received support.
Bajaj Auto is extending its support to Canine Care and Control, an organization dedicated to animal welfare. The efforts primarily revolve around a comprehensive program aimed at managing the population of canines. In FY 2024, BAL provided support for the Animal Birth Control (ABC) program targeting the canine population in the Pune Municipal Corporation area. Alongside the ABC initiative, these canines also receive essential vaccinations against rabies.
77. Salesforce.com India Pvt Ltd
Salesforce is an American cloud-based software company headquartered in San Francisco, California. Salesforce is known for its philanthropic efforts and commitment to sustainability.
Incorporated in 2005, Salesforce India provides customer relationship management (CRM) and other information technology services to businesses in India. The company’s CRM platform helps businesses connect with customers across marketing, sales, commerce, service, and IT teams. Salesforce also offers Tableau, which helps businesses analyze data to make better decisions. Services offered by this company include cloud computing, systems integration, software engineering, application development, and enterprise management.
Salesforce India has offices in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, and Jaipur. Former SBI Chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya is the CEO and Chairperson of Salesforce India.
Salesforce has been investing in India for over a decade and opened its Hyderabad Centre of Excellence in 2016. The company expanded the centre in 2023, making India a key global innovation and talent hub for Salesforce.
In April 2024, Salesforce announced its partnership with the Malligavad Foundation, an environmental NGO, to restore the Regula Kunta lake in Hyderabad. Anand Malligavad, founder of the Foundation and popularly known as the Lake Man of India, is spearheading the project, spread across 17 acres of land. In 2022, Salesforce added climate justice to its India CSR strategy, and sanctioned a grant to the Malligavad Foundation under nature and ecosystem restoration.
As part of its CSR, Salesforce started a programme in November 2023 in collaboration with the Ministry of Education to train one lakh students in Salesforce skills in the next three years in India. The programme comprises industry-relevant, National Occupation Standard-recognised course content. Modules for training are customised on Salesforce’s free online learning platform Trailhead based on the requirements of the programmes through the Ministry of Education, affiliated departments, organisations, and agencies so that the learners can benefit from these programmes.
In July 2022, Salesforce announced USD $2 Million in direct company donations to over 22 non-profits across India with a focus on education, equality and workforce development. With partners such as United Way of Hyderabad, Enable India and Protsahan India Foundation, Salesforce is committed to building resilience in young people and families breaking down inequalities through grants, employee giving, and volunteering, technology, and partnerships.
78. Ambuja Cements Ltd
Owned by Adani group, Ambuja Cements Limited aka Ambuja Cement is one of India’s leading cement and building material companies. The Company is committed to its Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) targets as well as Net Zero 2050 goals. The company which claims to be water positive, through conservation efforts and increasing water efficiency at its plants and plastic negative through co-processing of plastic waste in its kilns, has invested Rs. 10,000 crore towards building 1 GW capacity of Solar and Wind Power and 376 MW of Waste Heat Recovery Systems (WHRS), aiming for Green Power to account for 60% its energy needs by 2028, as per an announcement.
Ambuja Cements also works closely with communities where it operates through its CSR activities. It implements need-based and participatory programmes focussed on water resource development, health and sanitation, women empowerment, rural infrastructure, education, and creation of sustainable livelihoods.
In the FY 2023-24 Ambuja Cements Ltd spent Rs 63.23 crore as CSR expenditure as against a total CSR obligation of Rs 51.26 crore. The company’s CSR initiatives include health camps, driver empowerment programmes, educational efforts, and cattle vaccinations.
In 2024, the company launched After School Programme across its operational areas. This programme, designed to identify and nurture sporting talent, has so far been implemented at Ambuja Cements-supported schools around its Bathinda, Chandrapur, Darlaghat and Nalagarh plants. The programme in collaboration with ELMS Sports Foundation, provides students with specialised sports training, mentorship, nutrition guidance, and opportunities for growth in various disciplines. It also identifies students who display a passion and potential for excelling in sports, offering them a platform to hone their skills and reach their full athletic potential.
During the year, the Company constructed 444 roof rainwater harvesting systems, offering sustainable solutions for water conservation and building and reviving 798 farm ponds, it enhanced water availability for irrigation, as mentioned in its Annual Report.
Ambuja Cements upscaled its initiatives to increase the quality of its skill training endeavours. Focusing on empowering the youth, the company organised comprehensive training programmes across 17 centres in 12 states. The cement company through its CSR also worked towards gender inclusivity, as evidenced by 68 training sessions tailored for women, facilitating income-generation opportunities.
Ambuja Cements has addressed 96,000 truckers via its healthcare initiatives related to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, vision care, and non-communicable diseases. It also identified 7 high-risk cases in a follow-up to its cancer care programme and education in collaboration with the Association of Breast Surgery (United Kingdom), the Association of Breast Surgeons of India and the Tata Cancer Care programme.
The company initiated promotional sports activities and reached 102 schools, with 229 students participating in district and state-level competitions.
79. VFS Global
VFS Global manages non-judgmental and administrative tasks related to applications for visa, passport, and consular services for its governments, increasing productivity and enabling them to focus entirely on the critical task of assessment. The company prioritizes ethical practices and sustainability while serving as a trusted partner to 69 governments. Operating 3498 Application Centres in 152 countries, VFS Global has been processing applications since 2001 and biometric enrolments since 2007.
Headquartered in Zurich and Dubai and backed by majority shareholder Blackstone, along with the Swiss-based Kuoni and Hugentobler Foundation and EQT, VFS Global is committed to creating value for all stakeholders and leading in responsible, innovative solutions making government services more effective and efficient.
In October 2024, PVR NEST, the CSR trust of PVR INOX Limited, and VFS Global announced collaboration to spearhead a unique initiative that aims at making urban slum communities, especially women, resilient and empowered economically. PVR NEST has established especially-designed learning spaces for women in at-risk urban slum communities. Known as Garima Grih and Pink Centers, these spaces offer opportunities to first-generation earners to become financially independent. Located at some of the most vulnerable city slum settlements around areas such as Kirti Nagar, R.K.Puram, and Vikaspuri, these centres are spaces where women receive skill-based training and become economically independent.
Ten community trainers, who have been groomed by PVR NEST over the last year, are training 500 women and help them create dynamic women cohorts to inspire more women in the urban slum communities. These 500 women by the end of the program will be equipped with livelihood, communication, and outreach skills to create cohorts of thousands of women ready to transform their lives. Te purpose is to lift urban slum communities out of poverty and transform traditional gender roles while taking steps to contribute to the GDP.
VFS Global partnered with the Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) and the Tourism and Hospitality Skill Council (THSC) in 2023 to conduct strategic hospitality training for 25 young women from the marginalised communities. Participants of the 150-hour training programme were awarded with completion certificates and 16 of them also landed full-time employment offers with an average salary of INR 10,000 per month from some of the leading employers in the tourism and hospitality industry.
VFS Global was honoured at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 for their contribution towards Environment conservation.
80. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (Tata Power-DDL)
Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd or Tata Power-DDL is a joint venture between Tata Power Company and the Government of NCT of Delhi with the majority stake being held by Tata Power. It distributes electricity in North & North West parts of Delhi catering to a population of over 50 lakh. The company started operations on July 1, 2002 post the unbundling of erstwhile Delhi Vidyut Board. With a registered consumer base of around 12 lakh and a peak load of around 1350 MW, the company’s operations span across an area of 510 sq kms.
Tata Power-DDL has to its credit several firsts in Delhi: SCADA controlled Grid Stations, Automatic Meter Reading, GSM based Street Lighting system and SMS based Fault Management System. As a step towards captive generation, Tata Power-DDL has also established a 108 MW gas based combined cycle power generating facility at Rithala, North Delhi in its distribution area.
The Company is committed to promote social wellbeing and bring more compliments to the business. In the FY 2023-24 Tata Power-DDL spent Rs 12 crore 56 lakhs and 53 thousand as CSR expenditure as against a total CSR obligation of Rs 12 crore 25 lakhs and 28 thousand.
Tata Power-DDL is committed to ensuring the social wellbeing of the residents of JJ Clusters/ resettlement colonies/ villages in the vicinity of its operational areas through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives in alignment with Tata Power-DDL 2.0 strategy. These clusters also have a very high representation of SC/ST communities which further emphasizes the need for inducing various developmental initiatives therein.
The Company’s CSR programmes have been restructured and rebranded under the mother brand SAATHI with the Guiding Principles being UNNATI (Women & Youth Empowerment), UJJWAL (Support to SC/ST Communities), SANJEEVANI (Health) and CLUB ENERJI (Environment) which are meant to serve marginalized societal sections and communities falling in its licensed area of supply and its geographical locations of business development projects.
As per the company’s annual report, a total of 10.33 lakh beneficiaries have been helped and supported through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives of Tata Power-DDL such as Ujjwal (over 0.14 lakh), Sanjeevani ( over 5.92 lakh), Unnati (over 3.49 lakh), Club Enerji (over 0.70 lakh), and Disaster Management & Unforeseen Contingencies (Covid-19 Response/Activities – over 0.08 lakh).
Several initiatives have been taken in FY 2023-24 such as CSR Effectiveness Index, distribution of Aids & Appliances to the differently abled, NGO Scorecard Assessment, Board of Directors Visit, I Love Science Project, Inauguration of Community Library, set up of Jacquard Machine at Handloom Unit, Relief Work during Delhi Floods and CSR support for the rural belt under the licensed area of the Company. Some of the existing CSR initiatives are Women Literacy Centres, ABHAs, Self- Help Groups (SHGs), Vocational Training Centres, Mobile Dispensaries, Potable RO Water Plants, Energy Conservation Sensitization Sessions and Tree Plantation.
81. IBM India Pvt Ltd
IBM India Private Limited provides Information Technology services and has established itself as one of the leaders in the Indian IT Industry. The Company offers business and technical consulting, training and support, data storage, analysis, networks, and enterprise applications. IBM India serves clients worldwide. As a leading cognitive solutions and cloud platform company, innovation is at the core of the IBM company strategy. This is reflected in the end-to-end solutions delivered to clients, which span from software and systems hardware to a broad range of infrastructure, cognitive, cloud and consulting services.
Headquartered in Bengaluru, IBM India Private Limited is the Indian subsidiary of IBM operating since 1992. It has facilities across 20 cities including Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Coimbatore, Delhi, Gurugram, Hyderabad, Kochi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Noida, Pune, Mysore and Visakhapatnam.
The University of Chicago, together with The University of Chicago Trust in India, in collaboration with IBM is working to transform water quality in the state of Maharashtra, India. This initiative harnesses IBM’s expertise in data analytics, artificial intelligence, and hybrid cloud technologies to address the critical issue of water pollution. IBM, in collaboration with The University of Chicago Trust in India, is spearheading efforts to aggregate fragmented water quality information, providing key government and nonprofit organizations with essential tools to democratize access to water quality data. The overarching goal is to enhance water resource management by offering contextual spatial data that illuminates potential sources of water pollution.
With the aim to empower high school girl students to thrive in the digital economy, IBM runs a CSR initiative called STEM for Girls India. It is a three-year CSR programme (starting from the eighth standard) for imparting digital literacy and coding skills alongside career development and empowerment. The goal is to inculcate STEM skills and improve career prospects of over 2,00,000 girls and 1,00,000 boys too by making them employment-ready. The project began in 2019 and now spans across more than 10 states. The program is significant, as the new-collar jobs today demand technical skills in AI, data science, cybersecurity etc. These subjects require a knowledge base to be built in STEM during secondary and higher education.
IBM is also working closely with various state governments to help develop STEM skills among students. For instance, the company signed an agreement with Andhra Pradesh State Skills Development Corporation, Government of Andhra Pradesh to establish a Centre of Excellence (CoE). The CoE will provide high-end training in coding, cloud computing, AI, blockchain, Big Data and data analytics, cybersecurity and full-stack development.
IBM has also joined hands with Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge, Government of Telangana to offer ‘Open P-TECH’, a digital education platform. Under the partnership, IBM is providing P-Tech for learning emerging technologies and building professional development skills like design thinking to 30,000 students from polytechnic and engineering streams.
82. Redington Ltd
Headquartered in Chennai, Redington is a global technology solutions company that provides distribution, supply chain, and after-sales services for IT and mobility products. Redington distributes products from over 290 brands, including PCs, laptops, tablets, smartphones, printers, wearables, and accessories. The company offers a range of services, including cloud services, information technology, mobility, warehousing, reverse logistics, and project management.
Redington was founded in 1993 and has grown to be a US $8.4 billion company with with operations spanning across over 30 countries, including India, the Middle East, Africa, Turkey, and South Asian countries. Redington Foundation, the CSR Wing of Redington India Ltd implements the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility programmes. It endeavors to address the needs in quality education, health care for the underprivileged and excluded from urban poor, rural and tribal belonging to economically challenged families.
Redington Limited was honoured at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 for their CSR programme – Integrated Water and Sanitation Project in Schools. The CSR project being run by Redington Foundation aims to address critical gaps in WASH facilities, thereby improving health and educational outcomes for students. The specific objectives include Adequate WASH Facilities (Ensure child, gender, and PwD-friendly WASH facilities), Capacity Building (Empower School Management Committees for infrastructure management), Hygiene Behaviour Promotion (Promote improved hygiene practices among students, teachers, and support staff) and Menstrual Hygiene Management (Providing menstrual hygiene related facilities for adolescent girls within schools).
Redington Foundation along with Kauvery Hospital Chennai, a unit of Kauvery Group of Hospitals, runs a Telemedicine Centre at Kavaraipettai in Tamil Nadu. The centre provides access to healthcare for those living in and around the district of Chennai and Tiruvallur. Through this initiative, people can gain access to consultations for different ailments through video conferencing with a specialised doctor.
As part of its CSR initiative, Redington Foundation installed 67 biogas plants at Kuruthanamedu village and renovated a community pond at Thandalacherri village in Tiruvallur district of Tamil Nadu in 2003. The project aims to promote the use of biofuel as an alternative to fossil fuel, enhance the availability of water for irrigation and drinking purposes, and replenish the groundwater level in the area. The project has been implemented by Hand in Hand Inclusive Development and Services- HHIDS, a non-governmental organization working for rural development.
83. Central Coalfields Ltd
Formed on 1st November 1975, Central Coalfields Limited or CCL (formerly National Coal Development Corporation Ltd) was one of the first five subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd. which was the first holding company for coal in the country. During 2023-24, coal production of CCL reached its highest-ever figure of 86.054 million tonnes. Central Coalfields Limited’s (CCL) coal mines are located in Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha.
In the FY 2023-24, the coal PSU spent Rs 61.91 crores on CSR initiatives with a focus on sports, eradicating poverty, education, environmental sustainability, healthcare and sanitation and rural development.
Running since 2012, CCL’s flagship CSR programme “CCL Ke Lal & CCL Ki Laadli” provides opportunity to the meritorious children from underprivileged background to get admission in top engineering colleges of India. Each year, 40 students (20 girls & 20 boys) are selected on the basis of merit and provided free lodging, boarding, +2 schooling, and coaching for IIT and other engineering entrance examinations from IITian officers of CCL. The alumni are placed in premier corporates of the country and presenting turn around stories inspiring other village children.
CCL has engaged Akshaya Patra Foundation to establish a Centralized Kitchen in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district, with an outlay of Rs 22.09 Crore. The project provides mid-day meal to 50000 students of 538 government schools of the district. The construction commenced in 2023 and is in progress.
Central Coalfields Ltd in partnership with State Govt of Jharkhand established the Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society in the year 2016. In the first batch, 78 sports cadets were admitted from various Districts of Jharkhand. In the year 2016-17, 100 more Sports Cadets were added. About 97% of the academy sports cadets are Tribals and OBCs from remote villages of almost all 24 districts of Jharkhand. The cadets are provided free boarding, lodging, sports training, schooling etc in the sprawling campus at Khelgaon, Ranchi along with a monthly stipend of Rs 500.
The Academy is presently managed by a Local Management Committee (LMC) of Officers from Central Coalfields Ltd (CIL). Coaches of international repute have been selected from across the Country. They have led the Indian contingent in Olympics, Sr World Championship, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games in their respective areas of specialisation. Sports disciplines like Athletics, Archery, Football, Taekwondo, Wrestling, Judo, Hockey, Boxing, Weight Lifting, Shooting, Synchronised Diving, Swimming and Table Tennis are taught here.
In May 2023, CCL launched first-ever “Hospital on Wheels” for stray animals under new CSR initiative in Jharkhand. The inaugural function was held at CCL, Darbhanga House, Ranchi. The vehicle equipped with modern facilities is aimed at providing crucial veterinary care to stray animals which are neglected and need attention. Equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment and staffed by compassionate veterinarians, the hospital will bring healthcare directly to the streets, parks, villages and neighbourhoods where these vulnerable creatures reside. This CSR initiative of CCL not only offers round-the-clock medical attention to stray animals in Ranchi but also visits different command districts of CCL to immunise, sterilise and conduct sensitisation cum awareness campaigns for the villagers.
CCL has signed an MoU with the Department of Education, Government of Jharkhand, to construct a 5000- seater state library in Ranchi University, Ranchi with a project outlay of Rs. 65.25 Cr, with reading hall, e-resource and journal section, conference room, meditation centre etc. for the study, research, preparation for competitive exams by the students of Jharkhand. The construction commenced in 2023 and is in progress.
In order to ensure adequate drinking water sources for villagers, CCL has been taking up bore wells/solar deep borewells, hand pumps, wells and water filters to improve access to clean water in remote rural areas of Jharkhand.
84. GAIL (India) Ltd
GAIL (India) Limited is India’s leading natural gas company with diversified interests across the natural gas value chain of trading, transmission, LPG production & transmission, LNG re-gasification, petrochemicals, city gas, E&P, etc. It owns and operates a network of around 14617 km of natural gas pipelines spread across the length and breadth of country. It is also working on execution of multiple pipeline projects to further enhance the spread.
In the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) market, GAIL has a significantly large portfolio. GAIL and its Subsidiaries have a formidable market share in City Gas Distribution. GAIL is also expanding its presence in renewable energy like Solar, Wind and Biofuel.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 175.71 crores on CSR initiatives, which is a lot more than what it was obligated to spend as per the Company’s Act (Rs 142.45 crores).
GAIL has implemented CSR programmes primarily in the rural areas which are in close proximity to its major work centres or installations. It has identified seven broad areas of CSR intervention, each of which is titled by the objective they seek to achieve viz. Arogya – Nutrition, Health and Sanitation and Drinking Water projects, Ujjwal – Education initiatives, Kaushal – Livelihood Generation and Skill development initiatives, Unnati – Rural Development, Sashakt – Women Empowerment initiatives, Saksham – Care of the elderly and differently abled, and Harit – Environment centric initiatives.
GAIL’s Utkarsh programme provides free residential coaching, including boarding and lodging expenses for 11 months at Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh), Dwarahat (Uttarakhand) and Srinagar (Uttarakhand) to 160 students from underprivileged segments of society.
The CSR projects have consistently brought about significant positive changes over the years for numerous disadvantaged individuals touching more than 13 lakh lives in the last year itself., GAIL claims in its annual report for the FY. Noteworthy examples include the Utkarsh project for economically disadvantaged students which witnessed 97% of students qualifying for the JEE Mains and 100% for NEET; numerous skill development programs that have improved employment opportunities for over 1,500 individuals; and the provision of medical services in remote areas through Mobile Medical Units (MMUs) under the Arogya project.
GAIL has taken up project Bhavishya in government schools in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand. Smart class solutions have been provided in these schools as a part of the project. Further, 10 schools have been provided with sanitary napkin vending machines and incinerators. 155 Smart classes have been set up in Dharwad (Karnataka), Khunti and Giridih (Jharkhand), Rudraprayag (Uttarakhand) and various districts of Assam.
Over the years, GAIL Arogya project has become bigger and bigger and currently extends vital health care services through operation of 67 Mobile Medical Units (MMU), covering over 51 districts in 15 states of the country. The project primarily serves the underprivileged people who have limited access to the established Public Health Centre facilities.
GAIL is the nodal PSU for Skill Development Institute, Raebareli, the first skill academy set-up in the Hydrocarbon Sector in the state of Uttar Pradesh. It is currently supporting establishment and operation 6 Skill development Institutes in Raebareli (UP), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Kochi (Kerala), Vizag (Andhra Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Guwahati (Assam), jointly promoting it with other PSUs.
Under GAIL Arogya, healthcare facilities were extended to underprivileged population through doorstep medical care facility provided through operation of Mobile Medical Units which has qualified team of professionals including a MCI Registered MBBS Doctor, Pharmacist and ANM, operation of STI clinics, and support for distribution of nutrition kits for malnourished women & children, health camps, procurement of medical equipment in Government Hospitals, clean drinking water and sanitation facilities.
Under GAIL Kaushal, around 1500 individuals were provided skill training, in trades related to hydrocarbon sector, plastic product manufacturing, sampling tailor, vocational training to Persons with Disability (PwD) etc.
CSR initiatives under GAIL Ujjawal aided in providing and supporting quality education to over 11200 students by promoting education to underprivileged students in Government schools rural and urban slums through various infrastructure support, installation of smart classes, providing access to safe drinking water, setting up of STEM Resource centres, installation of sanitary napkin vending machines for adolescent girls and distribution of innovative school bags with educational desks.
Under project GAIL Utkarsh, 210 students were provided free residential coaching for Engineering/Medical entrance examinations at 3 Utkarsh centres- Kanpur, Varanasi and Haldwani. For batch of FY 2023-24 beneficiaries, out of total 180 students enrolled for Engineering examination under the project, 174 students qualified JEE MAINS (97% batch result). Further, all the 30 girl students enrolled for Medical enterence examination coaching have qualified NEET (100% batch result). Vocational training and distribution of assistive aids, infrastructural and operational support was provided to approximately 1780 persons with disabilities (PwDs) under GAIL Saksham.
In a move to make the Ganga pollution free, GAIL CSR under its Harit initiatives has continued support towards conversion of petrol/ diesel running boats to environment-friendly Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) boats in association with Varanasi Nagar Nigam.
85. Johnson & Johnson
Founded in 1886 in New Jersey, United States, Johnson & Johnson is a multinational corporation that manufactures medical devices and pharmaceuticals. The 139-year-old American multinational pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical technologies company owns several well-known consumer brands such as like Band-Aid, Aveeno, Reach, Splenda, Tylenol, and Zyrtec. In 2020 and 2021, Johnson & Johnson worked with the US government to develop a COVID-19 vaccine.
CSR activities of Johnson & Johnson India have the following broad thrust areas – Advancing women’s and children’s health, Strengthening the healthcare workforce, Building Livelihood Capacity, Accelerating innovative solutions to address global disease challenges, Community Responsibility, Disaster Relief, Encouraging Innovation and sustainability.
Most CSR projects of Johnson & Johnson India are implemented through qualifying Implementing Agencies. In certain cases, the company undertakes and delivers CSR projects on its own. Monitoring of the CSR activities includes physical visits to the project sites as well as regular connects with the implementation agencies.
86. Mondelēz India Foods Private Limited
Mondelēz India is a part of Mondelēz International, one of the world’s largest snacks manufacturing companies, operating across 150 countries around the world. India has been a top priority market for Mondelēz International since 1948. The company has made significant investments to Make in India – in manufacturing or sale footprint, R&D, technology hubs, farming and sustainability.
Headquartered in Mumbai, Mondelēz India Foods Private Limited has sales offices in New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Chennai and manufacturing facilities at Induri (Maharashtra), Malanpur (Madhya Pradesh), Baddi (Himachal Pradesh) and Sri City (Andhra Pradesh), in addition to a global Research & Development Technical Centre and Global Business Hub in Maharashtra and a vast distribution network across the country.
Brands under Mondelēz include Cadbury Dairy Milk, Cadbury Bournvita, Oreo, Cadbury Dairy Milk Silk, Cadbury Choclairs, Gems, 5-Star, Perk, Bournville, and Celebrations. The company’s products like Cadbury 5 Star, Cadbury Dairy Milk Silk, Cadbury Gems, Cadbury Bournvita, Cadbury Perk and so many others that have now gone from India to global markets.
In 2022, Mondelez India had embarked to enhance healthcare accessibility and wellness across India in line with our government’s vision of Ayushman Bharat, which seeks to provide comprehensive healthcare to all. As part of this initiative, today 200 Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centres (now renamed as Ayushman Arogya Mandirs) have been upgraded across Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The objective was to strengthen Primary Health Care facilities to deliver quality Comprehensive Primary Health Care services using HWCs and outreach platforms alongside prioritizing services for new-born, children and adolescents.
The company’s flagship initiative, ‘Shubh Aarambh,’ spans across eight states — Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala as well as Delhi. This program focuses on driving nutrition education, active play among 7–14-year-old children and takes a holistic view of communities. Shubh Aarambh also focuses on healthcare and in upgrading the infrastructure facilities in these communities including providing safe drinking water, planting trees among others.
As part of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’s (FSSAI) Eat Right Schools initiative in 2023, Mondelez India empowered 200 schools pan India, impacting nearly 100,000 beneficiaries which include 45,000 students. This year the company will be empowering an additional 75 schools to attain the ‘Eat Right School’ status across Mumbai and Sindhudurg.
To address the plastic waste problem, Mondelez India launched the ‘Lighthouse Project’ in Mapusa, Goa in October, 2024. This five-year initiative, created in collaboration with the Goa State Pollution Control Board and Mapusa Municipal Council, aims to tackle waste management issues and promote a circular economy by redirecting over 1,000 metric tons of plastic waste annually. Goa currently produces approximately 2,700 tons of non-recyclable waste each month, with plastic waste making up a significant portion. The project is being implemented with the support of the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), Anubhuti Welfare Foundation (AWF), and Responsible Earth Foundation (REF) as operations partners.
Mondelez India, in collaboration with National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), launched a youth skilling program at two skill development centres in Bhind, Madhya Pradesh, and Pune, Maharashtra, in observance of World Youth Skills Day in July 2024. This endeavour is aimed at empowering 660 young people across Pune and Bhind. The initiative is an extension of Mondelez India’s national CSR program, Shubh Aarambh. The candidates will be trained in sectors such as management, hospitality & tourism, retail, IT-ITeS, and logistics, that have been identified based on job assessments and skill related demands from local industries and job markets. In Bhind, more than 300 candidates will receive training for roles in security, retail, front office, etc.
Simultaneously, in Pune, over 300 candidates will receive training for roles in office, documentation, customer care, etc. The training will encompass Short-Term Training (STT) using Qualification Pack (QP)- led training modules specifically designed for the job roles in the identified sectors. The candidates will receive training in soft skills and skill orientation on respective job roles, tools, and work methodology. It will be followed by assessment, certification, and connecting the candidates to employment opportunities.
87. Shree Cement Limited
Shree Cement Limited, incorporated in 1979, is India’s third-largest cement group today, with operations spread across the country. At Shree Cement, CSR initiatives are guided by the Samaj Seva (Corporate Social Responsibility) Policy and executed through the Shree Foundation Trust.
Shree Cement’s CSR initiatives are focused on thematic areas such as Healthcare, Water supply and sanitation, Environmental Protection, Art and culture, Rural Development and sports, Education, Gender equality and Women Empowerment, Sustainable livelihood, and Support to veterans of armed forces and war widows. Through its CSR projects the company supports SDGs No Poverty, Zero Hunger, Good Health and wellbeing, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Clean Water and Sanitation, and Decent work and economic development.
During the year 2023-24, Shree Cement has spent Rs 51.34 crore on CSR activities in compliance with Section 135 of the Act.
88. DLF Ltd.
Delhi Land & Finance (DLF) was founded in 1946 by Chaudhary Raghvendra Singh. DLF started with the creation of 22 urban colonies in Delhi. In 1985, the company expanded into the then-unknown region of Gurugram, creating exceptional living and working spaces for the new Indian global professionals. Today, DLF is the largest publicly listed real estate company in India, with residential, commercial, and retail properties in 15 states and 24 cities.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 26.23 crores on CSR initiatives.
The DLF Group implements its CSR initiatives primarily through DLF Foundation, which works along with the Government, civil society and communities to resolve critical development challenges faced by the communities. Its programmes are aligned with the immediate ongoing priorities of the Government on CSR. CSR is also implemented through DLF Q.E.C. Educational Charitable Trust, DLF Q.E.C. Medical Charitable Trust and other Public Charitable Trusts.
The Company has been contributing continuously towards building sustainable capacities and creating resources for the marginalised people near its operational areas. DLF Foundation addresses Social Development Projects with an integrated holistic approach to ensure that its programmes impact critical aspects of the lives of the underserved in the areas of Education, Healthcare, Environment Preservation and Promotion of Sports, as also for Animal Welfare.
Since its inception in 2011, the ‘DLF CARES In-School Education Support Programme’ has been steadfast in its commitment to provide educational support to underprivileged students across 20 states in India. With the belief that quality education is a fundamental right of every child, this Programme seeks to empower children from low-income families by sponsoring their complete educational journey till Grade 12. During FY 2023-24, 1,808 students were awarded scholarships as part of this Programme.
Students studying at the government school in Jugsana Kalan Village, Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh were facing challenges due to inadequate infrastructure and insufficient sanitation facilities, adversely affecting their educational progress. To address these issues, DLF Q.E.C. Educational Charitable Trust partnered with Atulya Foundation to improve the experience for approximately 200 village students. This initiative focuses on enhancing access to educational resources, promoting literacy and supporting the community’s holistic development. Key enhancements included the construction of distinct classrooms for each grade, a library and a computer lab.
Greening and plantation are a vital part of DLF’s environmental sustainability efforts. Last year, the Greening and Environment Programmes included Adoption of Public Green Belts in Gurugram, Delhi and Hyderabad; Adoption of Public Parks in Delhi and Urban Afforestation adjoining Bhondsi Village, Haryana. During the year, DLF Foundation developed and maintained a total green area of 5,45,004 square meters across various public green belts and parks across India.
DLF Foundation and Fortis Healthcare partnered to conduct a series of Health Screening Camps for the underserved communities in Gurugram, Delhi and Noida. During the year, 631 beneficiaries from these communities were provided with health screening along with medical consultation. DLF Foundation collaborated with ICARE Eye Hospital to conduct 700 free cataract surgeries for individuals from underprivileged communities residing in the rural areas of U.P. and Haryana.
To provide rehabilitative care for small animals, a Physiotherapy and Hydrotherapy Facility of 2,219 sq. ft. is being developed at the CGS Veterinary Care Hospital, Gurugram. This Centre will help injured, disabled and post-operative animals regain their mobility, strength, and overall physical well-being.
DLF Foundation in collaboration with Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM) continues to work towards alleviating homelessness and beggary in Delhi by providing rehabilitation of homeless at residential shelters. Under the project, computer and vocational training is provided to rehabilitated women and children to enable education and skilling.
89. Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS)
Headquartered in New Jersey, Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (CTS) is a global information technology (IT) services and consulting company. They help clients use technology to become more data-driven and innovative.
Since 2018, Cognizant has invested $70M in philanthropic funds through 117 grants to 77 organizations globally dedicated to workforce preparation for all ages. In 2021 Cognizant announced that it has made a fresh five-year $250 million Corporate Social Responsibility commitment towards initiatives like advancing economic mobility, educational opportunity, diversity and inclusion, and health and well-being in communities around the world.
Cognizant’s CSR efforts reach hundreds of organizations worldwide, impacting millions of individuals. Through philanthropic grants, education partnerships, volunteerism and mentoring – this focused effort is expected to reach 300,000 individuals.
The Cognizant Foundation India is a CSR arm of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation. Since 2005, Cognizant Foundation India has partnered with non-profit organizations across the subcontinent. The Foundation’s interventions are focused on empowering people with disabilities, promoting holistic child development and fostering gender equality across two thematic areas -Health4All, enhancing accessibility to quality healthcare, and Future4All, creating a better tomorrow through education and skilling.
Cognizant launched a new skilling programme Synapse as part of its commitment to skilling and preparing the workforce for AI and the digital economy. Together with its non-profit and community education partnerships, CTS is working to equip individuals with new technology skills, to sustain communities as the digital economy grows, and to improve economic opportunities for all. Under this programme, employees are trained to leap forward with cutting-edge technologies like generative AI, Cognizant’s premier tech services and skills needed to fill jobs of the future. With a goal of training more than one million individuals by 2026, the company is working in collaboration with governments, academic institutions, businesses and strategic partners.
Cognizant’s Accelerator program is training 200,000 jobseekers to perform high-demand tech skills. Candidates complete online courses and assessments and get experience working with top clients in major industries. High performers are then shortlisted for specialized train-to-hire programs or job interviews with Cognizant or a Synapse partner.
90. Jindal Steel & Power
Late Om Prakash Jindal found Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) 30 years ago and made the Jindal Group synonymous with mining and Industrialization in India. JSP is an industrial powerhouse with a dominant presence in steel, power, mining and infrastructure sectors. Led by Mr Naveen Jindal, Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) carries out its CSR activities in India through JSPL Foundation. Shallu Jindal leads the JSPL Foundation.
In the FY 2023-24, Jindal Steel & Power spent Rs 227.64 crores on CSR initiatives. The company is working to enhance sports infrastructure through construction of playgrounds, rural gyms, sports complexes, stadiums, and sports hostel for underprivileged sports women and men. It has also been promoting Grassroot Level Sports and talents in Wushu, Martial Arts, Football, Hockey, Cricket, and Kabaddi in rural areas through coaching, rehabilitation, and nutrition.
JSPL has been implementing its CSR projects through JSPL foundation. The foundation provides concept and leadership in the CSR intervention programmes.
Under healthcare, the CSR project Kishori Express addresses adolescent anemia control among adolescent girls. Project Vatsalya aims to reduce Infant and Maternal Mortality Rates. Project Shubhangi facilitates girls and women for maintenance of menstrual hygiene and prevention of RTI. Project Chiranjeevi extends food and healthcare support for underprivileged malnourished children. The company has also been providing nutritional support to TB patient under PM’s TB Mukt Bharat Abhiyan.
JSPL has been running a Tele-Medicine Centre which caters to the health needs of local community and outreach health services through O.P. Jindal Hospital, Raigarh. Project Dristi provides regular eye check-up and free spectacle distribution to truck drivers and underprivileged communities. Jindal Aarogyam Hospital at Raigarh extends state-of-art health care services to the needy, rural and underprivileged people.
Under Education, the O.P.J. Scholarship has been encouraging meritorious students for their career growth. Project Siksha aims to increase school enrolment, reduce dropout rate, and increase students’ attendance. Project UTKARSH imparts online result-oriented coaching and guidance for underprivileged, backward, and differently abled, youth aspirants for qualifying different competitive examinations. The O. P. Jindal School has been established with at 5 different locations (Angul, Barbil, Patratu, Raigarh, and Nalwa) focusing on imparting quality education of children.
Under agriculture, the Integrated Watershed Development Programme focuses on sustainable agriculture production and productivity and enrichment of biodiversity.
Under animal welfare project JINDAL Mobile Vet Seva specially designed Mobile Veterinary Ambulances have been creating a stronger support system for veterinary care.
Jindal Steel & Power Limited was honoured at The CSR Journal Excellence Awards 2024 for its contribution for the development of sports.
91. ACC Limited
ACC Limited (formerly The Associated Cement Companies Limited) is a leading player in the Indian building materials space operating since over 80 years. The company has 18 cement manufacturing units, and over 82 ready mix concrete plants. It is a member of the diversified Adani Group.
Adani Group is committed to protecting the environment and improving communities through its CSR programmes based on the principles of sustainability, diversity and shared values. Corporate Social Responsibility efforts include benefitting local communities across the country by furthering economic and social progress. ACC’s earliest initiatives in community development date back to the 1940’s – long before the term ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ was coined.
In the FY 2023-24, ACC Limited spent Rs 37.49 crores towards CSR benefitting over 3 lakh people through its CSR arm ACC CSR, a part of the Adani Foundation, as per its Annual Report. The CSR initiatives focus on sectors like Education, Healthcare, Sustainable Livelihoods, Skill Development, and Community Infrastructure.
To address healthcare challenges in rural areas, the Uttar Pradesh government initiated Health ATM machines, supported by Adani Adani Foundation particularly in Amethi district. These touchscreen kiosks provide access to personal health information and offer full body checkups within minutes, including various tests like HB analyser, pulse oximeter, and lipid profile. Adani Foundation has also contributed to the installation of a CT-scan facility at the district hospital in Anakapalli, Andhra Pradesh.
ACC has established 16 schools across different locations, providing high-quality education to children from host communities. These schools benefit a total of 11,819 students. Notably, the ACC Higher Secondary School in Kymore, Madhya Pradesh, celebrated its 100th anniversary in December 2023.
The Adani Foundation supports academically bright rural students who face socio-economic barriers to accessing quality education. Through initiatives like the Adani Competitive Coaching Centre, the Foundation aims to strengthen its foundational knowledge and provide detailed guidance through classes and regular assessments. Additionally, Adani Evening Coaching Centres are being operated in locations such as Jamul, Kudithini, Bargarh, and Sindri, benefitting 257 students.
The Adani Foundation is running a dairy enterprise development initiative across two sites, namely Jamul and Tikaria, encompassing 14 villages and benefiting 95 cattle owners. As part of this initiative, three milk collection centres have been established, collectively averaging a daily milk collection of 450 litres.
92. Oil India Limited
Oil India Limited (OIL) is a central public sector undertaking (CPSE) engaged in exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas. With its origin dating back to the glorious year of oil discovery in India in 1889, Oil India Limited is regarded as one of the leading CPSEs in the country contributing towards India’s indigenous basket of crude oil.
Owing to the growth in oil & gas production and improved price realization in FY 2022-23, OIL recorded the highest-ever turnover since inception and registered the highest-ever profit after tax (PAT) in the preceding financial year. The exploration efforts of OIL were recognised as it was bestowed with the prestigious FIPI (Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry) Awards 2022 “Exploration Company of the Year.”
Major thrust areas include Healthcare, Education, Skill Development, Sustainable Livelihood, Women Empowerment, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Clean Drinking Water & Sanitation), Promotion of Rural Sports, Promotion of Art, Culture & Heritage and Environment sustainability, Relief & Rehabilitation among others. The Company also responds to national emergencies like floods and other natural disasters by supporting the Government’s efforts in responding to such situation. Key CSR initiatives include the OIL Ayushman Yojana, HR Clinics, and various sports programs based on OIL’s commitment to employee well-being and community development.
In FY 2023-24, OIL spent Rs 122.80 crore in CSR activities against the mandatory spend of Rs 74.74 crore as per provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Company’s subsidiary Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) spent Rs 94.18 crore in CSR activities against the mandatory spend of Rs 92.27 Crore.
OIL Super 30, a flagship CSR intervention of OIL promotes higher education amongst meritorious underprivileged students by providing 11-months free residential coaching and academic mentoring for JEE and NEET exams, enabling admissions in IIT and other reputed engineering and medical colleges across the Country.
CSR project OIL Sparsha addresses the primary healthcare needs of the people residing in remote villages of OIL operational areas of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, and Tripura. A total of 1,186 nos. of mobile health camps were conducted to benefit 1,13,389 patients in FY 2023-24.
Under CSR project OIL Arogya, multi-pronged healthcare interventions were implemented towards reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) while focusing on diverse parameters of maternal and child health covering OIL’s operational districts of Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Charaideo and Sivasagar in Assam.
OIL Swabalamban provides placement linked skill & capacity building training to the youth from OIL’s operational areas of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, 89 Tripura and other parts of Assam through various industry relevant placement linked skill trades.
OIL Nursing School, Oil India Hospital, Duliajan conducts 03 years Diploma in General Nursing & Midwifery (GNM) to prepare nurses to function as an efficient healthcare provider while also empowering women in the society.
93. Hero Motocorp Limited
Hero MotoCorp is the dominant market leader in India with over 50% share in the domestic motorcycle market. The company headquartered in New Delhi has been at the forefront of designing and developing technologically advanced motorcycles and scooters for customers globally. Hero MotoCorp continues to champion socio-economic progress and empowerment through its range of products and services.
Led by Dr Pawan Munjal, Chairman, Hero MotoCorp, it has taken rapid strides to expand its presence to 40 countries across Asia, Africa, and South & Central America.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 73.89 crores on CSR initiatives which is slightly more than the total CSR obligation Rs 72.70 crores. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) vision of the Company is to ‘have a greener, safer and equitable world’.
Through its CSR initiative, Hero WeCare, the company claims that it has made a positive impact on 1.4 million people by providing quality education, livelihood opportunities, promoting road safety awareness, and supporting biodiversity conservation efforts.
Hero MotoCorp’s Road safety awareness is an essential intervention for preventing road accidents and making roads safer across the country. The company manages six road safety training parks across the country and offer motorcycles and scooters rider training to college students as well as the general public.
Their community development programs in West Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Gujarat along with a few suburbs of Delhi-NCR are focused on healthcare, education and livelihood improvement, underlying our commitment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Project Khelo Hero focuses on the development of sports at the grassroot level. It strives to encourage the sporting culture in the country. Project Shiksha focuses on upgrading and elevating the education ecosystem in the country. The objective of the intervention is to create an enabling and encouraging environment for imparting quality education in India.
CSR project for Healthcare Arogya focuses on providing healthcare facility to the most vulnerable section of society in which activities are undertaken to ensure overall well being of communities. The company’s Mobile Medical Vans have been providing medical assistance, basic treatment as well as medication to residents of Delhi, Dharuhera and Rewari in Haryana, Neemrana in Rajasthan, Jaipur in Rajasthan, Uttarakhand’s Haridwar and Dehradun, Sri-City Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh and Halol in Gujarat.
CSR project Jeevika aims at skilling women to make them financially and mentally independent. The project focuses on providing livelihood and skills training to over 1,000 youth – mainly girls and women from marginalised socioeconomic backgrounds
94. SJVN Limited (Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam)
SJVN Ltd is a hydroelectric power generation company. The CPSE is the largest operational hydroelectric power generation facility in India based on installed capacity, with an aggregate generation capacity of 1912 MW.
SJVN Limited, under the Ministry of Power was incorporated on May 24, 1988, as a joint venture of the Government of India (GOI) and the Government of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP). SJVN is presently implementing or operating power projects in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam, Odisha, Mizoram and Madhya Pradesh in India along with Nepal.
During financial year 2022-23, the Company has spent a total amount of Rs 59.84 crores on CSR activities which is Rs 23.38 crores more than the statutory obligation of Rs 36.46 crores. All the CSR initiatives of SJVN are undertaken through the registered trust, SJVN Foundation. Till date, the company has spent more than Rs. 450 crores on a spectrum of CSR activities spanning the verticals of Education & Skill development, Health & Hygiene, Infrastructural Development & Community Asset Creation, Sustainable Development, Assistance during Natural Disasters, Preservation & Promotion of Local Culture and Sports.
In FY 2023, SJVN was the second highest CSR spender for Himachal Pradesh spending Rs. 19.17 crores for the state.
The SJVN Silver Jubilee Scholarship, which began in 2012 and continues to this day across five states, is a one-of-a-kind programme that encourages students in project-affected areas to pursue higher education. Scholarships are awarded to meritorious students regardless of social creed and class. Each student is given Rs 24,000 per annum to support and promote higher education. This programme cultivates a scientific mindset for academics and competitive examinations.
SJVN’s initiative towards the Swachh Bharat Mission is the installation of 23,000 twin-set dustbins in the two Parliamentary Constituencies of Shimla and Mandi of HP. The purpose of the CSR programme is to educate the general public about waste and waste management.
In October 2024, SJVN inaugurated a biodiversity park near the company’s corporate HQ in Shimla. The park has been made with SJVN’s CSR funds worth Rs 2.08 crores which includes a children’s park, an open gym and a model 1.3 kW Hydro Power Turbine for educational purpose.
95. Alkem Laboratories Limited
Alkem Laboratories Limited is one of the leading entities in the Indian pharmaceutical industry. With a presence spanning over five decades, Alkem has gained popularity for its pioneering work aimed at making a significant impact on people’s lives. With a global presence across over 40 countries, Alkem has 19 state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities and Research and Development (R&D) centres across India and the United States. It is headquartered in Mumbai, India.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 34.79 crores towards CSR benefitting over 11 lakh people, which is slightly more than its obligation Rs 32.76 crores. The company implements CSR activities directly or through reliable partnerships with various NGOs and through its CSR arm and wholly owned subsidiary Alkem Foundation.
During financial year 2023-24, Alkem Laboratories Limited has addressed the requirements of local communities in the vicinity of its head office, manufacturing facilities and R&D centres through focused projects in the thematic areas of of healthcare, education, rural development, environment and sports.
Alkem has been uplifting communities through its CSR initiatives focusing on healthcare, education, rural development, and environment.
Some of the key CSR interventions undertaken this year include establishing Advanced Radiotherapy Centre, providing home-based palliative care, conducting campaigns on hygiene and sanitation in schools, and empowering women. Alkem has been working on construction of Advance Radiotherapy Center in Bihar’s Aspirational District of Muzaffarpur with CSR fund of Rs 57.30 crores and ensuring Home based Palliative Care with a CSR fund of Rs 48.53 Lakhs. It has also spent Rs 10.86 Lacs in Sanitation Project, focusing on campaign on sanitation and hygiene in the Government Schools of Sikkim’s Aspirational District Soren.
In FY 2021-22, as part of its CSR activities, the company had entered into a project ‘Construction of Road from Mamring bridge to Samardung Village’ in Sikkim, spread over a period of 2 years with a total budget outlay of Rs 22.6 million. This was being implemented through its CSR arm Alkem Foundation. However, due to occurrence of the natural calamity of flash floods in Sikkim on 04th October, 2023, the newly constructed road was damaged and eventually collapsed.
96. LTIMindtree Limited
LTIMindtree Limited is a multinational information technology services and consulting company. It is a subsidiary of Larsen and Toubro Group after the merger of Mindtree Limited and LTI.
In the FY 20203-24, LTIMindtree Limited spent Rs 80.05 crores on CSR activities which is more or less the same as what it was obligated to spend. The company performs CSR with a focus on promoting inclusive development and biodiversity conservation. The company has supported livelihoods of 598, 698 underprivileged individuals through its CSR in FY 24.
According to its annual report, the company’s CSR programs cover areas such as education, skill development, healthcare, livelihood improvement, and empowerment. The company’s social responsibility manifests itself through LTIMindtree Foundation-led CSR initiatives and people-led initiatives in volunteering. Having started with a non-strategic approach to CSR, LTIMindtree has progressed to build rigorous systems, methods, and measurements.
The School Infrastructure Renovation (SIR) project is a flagship CSR initiative undertaken by LTIMindtree Limited in collaboration with the National Agro Foundation (NAF). The project’s primary focus is on renovating essential facilities in four rural schools located in the picturesque villages of Karya, Chinnamballi, Konthayyanhundi, and Thagaduru, situated in Nanjangud Taluk, Mysuru District, Karnataka.
The Digital Literacy program is another remarkable CSR initiative undertaken by LTIMindtree Limited, with the aim of empowering students with digital and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) learning opportunities. This ambitious program has made a significant impact across multiple states in India, reaching out to underserved communities and transforming the educational landscape.
The Yuva Jyoti project, a transformative CSR initiative undertaken by LTIMindtree Limited in collaboration with Beem Rural Development Organization, has been making a significant impact on the lives of women and youth in Koratagere, Blalya, and Hakki Pikki colony in Tumkur district, Karnataka. Focused on empowering women and youth with valuable skills, this project aims to uplift individuals and elevate their social status, enabling them to lead dignified lives.
The Women Empowerment project is a transformative CSR initiative undertaken by LTIMindtree Limited in collaboration with Sankalp Manav Vikas Sanstha, Nudge Foundation, and Tisser Artisans Trust. This empowering project focuses on providing marginalized women in various states of India with skill training and market linkage, aiming to uplift them from poverty and create a path towards self-sufficiency and entrepreneurship.
The My Tree project, spearheaded by LTIMindtree Limited in collaboration with the SankalpTaru Foundation, stands as a testament to the company’s commitment to environmental sustainability and creating a greener future. With the overarching goal of sustainable transformation of the environmental ecosystem, the project focuses on planting trees to combat climate change and promote biodiversity.
97. Honeywell Automation India Limited
Honeywell Automation India Limited (HAIL) was incorporated in India in 1984 and its registered office is located in Hadapsar, Pune. HAIL is a leader in providing integrated automation and software solutions, including process solutions and building solutions. It has a wide product portfolio in environmental and combustion controls, and sensing and control, and also provides engineering services in the field of automation and control to global clients. A Fortune India 500 company, HAIL has more than 3,000 employees across India – Pune, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Gurgaon, Kolkata, Jamshedpur and Vadodara.
In the FY 20203-24, Honeywell Automation India Limited spent Rs 11 crore on CSR activities which is exactly the same as its CSR obligation for the FY.
The company’s CSR initiatives, environmental efforts, and ethical corporate governance are centred on fulfilling its environmental, social, and governance (ESG) responsibilities. HAIL has contributed in providing sustainable solutions in healthcare, education, rural infrastructure, and community development, with a commitment to further impact people, families, and communities served.
The Honeywell Centre for Advancing Girls in Science CSR project aims to develop the next generation of women leaders through specially curated STEM-focused transformative and enriching educational programme in Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Telangana, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.
The Sustainable & Holistic Community Development project aims to create a sustainable community through its four core areas i.e. Water & Sanitation, Health & Nutrition, Education and Economic Development (livelihood) in Maharashtra’s Nashik.
The Strengthening Rural Health Infrastructure project aims to upgrade primary healthcare centres across rural India to provide quality and comprehensive healthcare to rural communities. The project has impacted more than 21 lakhs beneficiaries in Haryana, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand.
HAIL’s CSR project ‘Plant the Future Campaign’ aims to promote environmental sustainability through planting 10 lakh trees over 10 years across 10 cities and creating biodiversity hubs. Through the project, the Company has planted more than 1.20 lakhs of saplings in the Bengaluru and Pune.
98. Titan Company Limited
The Titan Company Limited (Titan) began in 1984 as a joint venture between the TATA Group and Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO). It is currently one of the largest integrated watch manufacturers in the world.
In the FY 2023-24, the company spent Rs 57.99 crores on CSR initiatives. Titan’s CSR policy focuses on education, especially of the underprivileged girl child, People with Disabilities, skill development for the underprivileged and support for arts, crafts and Indian heritage. everal CSR programmes are being run with the help of NGOs across the four priority states of Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Sikkim.
With a focus on sustainability, in addition to the completion of lake rejuvenation in Bengaluru and the ongoing one at Hosur, the Company has enhanced its focus on watershed management in many of its CSR programmes in places like Uttarakhand, Cuddalore, Krishnagiri and Chengam in Tamil Nadu. Recently, the Company also rejuvenated a Kalyani (pond) near Chikkaballapur, which can hold 13 lakh litres of freshwater.
In FY 2023-24, over 22,370 girls were educated through remedial intervention, learning centres and school adoption under the Kanya Programme, over 41,000 individuals have been skilled for employment, employability, and entrepreneurship, the Integrated Village Development Programme (IVDP) reached out to 16,307 individuals across Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Tamil Nadu, The ‘Happy Eyes’ eye care project has provided compensation benefitting over 5 lakh underprivileged adults and children while 20 tribal women and 120 at risk women/girls supported for entrepreneurship as claimed by the company in its Annual report. At the same time 517 youth received scholarships for higher education and 774 persons with disabilities have been supported through Titan’s CSR.
In 2022, Titan Company announced the ‘Go Green’ initiative with the aim of planting over one lakh trees in India. Under this, a series of plantation drives are being hosted to encourage employees and their families to plant trees in partnership with the NGO, ‘BiotaSoil Foundation’, Tata Motors and Tata Power.
99. Tata Sons Private Limited
Tata Sons Private Limited is the principal holding company of the Tata group. 66% of the equity share capital of Tata Sons is held by philanthropic trusts, which support education, health, livelihood generation, and art and culture.
In the FY 20203-24, Tata Sons Private Limited spent Rs 68.08 crore on CSR activities which is exactly the same as its CSR obligation for the FY. The Company had spent Rs 545.83 crore, Rs 129 crore and Rs 58.35 crore in the financial years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23 respectively, towards CSR activities.
The Tata Sustainability Group (TSG) handles the CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) of Tata Sons Private Limited. The TSG advises the Tata Group and its companies on CSR policies and strategies.
The company has been focussing on CSR in the areas of healthcare (project cancer care for head and neck cancers), Education (projects digital learning solution for inclusive education, soft skills training in government and ITIs, hands-on practical training programme for graduates), rural upliftment and skill development projects.
Tata Sons Chairman Emeritus Shri Ratan Tata passed away in October 2024. Known for his philanthropy and love for animals, this renowned industrialist’s last gift to India was the Tata Trust Small Animal Hospital, Mumbai. Inaugurated in Mumbai on 1st July 2024, the pet hospital is built on an area of 98,000 square feet and was made with a budget of Rs 165 crore. It boasts ICUs and HDUs with life support for critically ill and injured animals; advanced diagnostic imaging services, including CT scans, MRI, X-ray, and ultrasound; surgery units; specialty treatment (dermatology, dental, ophthalmology, etc); an in-house pathology lab; separate waiting areas for dogs and cats; and inpatient wards, among other things.
In July last year, the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet approved Tata Sons’ proposal to build a ‘Museum of temples’ in Ayodhya, a project worth Rs 650 crore to be funded through Tata’s corporate social responsibility fund. The UP cabinet also sanctioned Rs 100 crore for further development works in Ayodhya and endorsed the initiation of helicopter services in Lucknow, Prayagraj, and Kapilvastu. The museum project, which has been under consideration since last year, aims to highlight the history and architecture of India’s renowned temples and may feature a light-and-sound show. The tourism department will provide land for the museum on a 90-year lease for a nominal fee of Re 1.
100. Ericsson India Private Limited
Ericsson is a leading provider of mobile connectivity solutions to telecom operators as well as enterprises in various sectors. Founded in 1976, the company is a global leader in communications technology – by providing hardware, software, and services to enable the full value of connectivity.
A jointly owned production company, Ericsson India Pty Ltd, was formed in the early 1970s that sold manual switching equipment to customers that included the Indian Defence authorities. The current Ericsson company, the wholly owned Ericsson Communications, was formed in 1996.
Ericsson India boasts of being the first telecom company to ‘Make in India’ in 1994. The company has a manufacturing facility in Pune, Maharashtra which was set up in 2016. The facility has been supporting India telecom operators as well as those across the world by manufacturing both 4G and 5G network infrastructure.
Ericsson runs the Empowering Girl Scholarship in India. In this initiative, Ericsson will provide financial support to meritorious girl students coming from underprivileged sections of the society. Girl students pursuing studies in the 2nd year of Engineering (IT/CS) or MBA program across India will be provided with financial assistance of INR 75,000 per year to cover their academic expenses.
Ericsson India partnered with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT Kanpur) to support their development of low-cost air quality monitoring networks in India. In phase-I of this project, IIT Kanpur deployed a network of 30 such air quality monitors across Delhi NCR to generate a dashboard of the city’s air quality data to address the growing air pollution in Delhi.
To serve the needs of critically ill children in the age group 0-12 years, Ericsson and Save the Children set up modern Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU) across government hospitals in the five cities of Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune, Jaipur and Indore in 2022. The critical care facility at the CMC Jijamata Maternity hospital (Pune), Niloufer hospital (Hyderabad), Institute of Child Health (Kolkata), PC Seithy Hospital (Indore), Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital (Gangori, Jaipur) are equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators, bi-pap machines, pulse oximeters, and other critical medical supplies.
With the objective of building a future-ready talent force from the school level onwards, Vi Foundation, the CSR (corporate social responsibility) arm of Vi, in partnership with Ericsson India set up a Robotic Lab in Sayajinath Maharaj Vidyalaya and Jr. College, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pune in 2023. This is the first among the ten labs to be set up by Vi Foundation in the six states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Gujarat. Equipped with robotic kits, 3D printer, laptops and a projector, the Digital Lab is said to be designed to assist students of standard 6th to 9th through their first experience of the world of programming and new technologies.
Ericsson India has partnered with the Saahas NGO for the ‘bE-Circular’ initiative that aims to implement an e-waste management awareness, sensitization, and authorized disposal system project. Initially the project will be a pilot from Gurugram which will then expand to cover the Delhi NCR region.